.TH DVIPS 1 "4 May 2010"
.SH NAME
dvips \- convert a TeX DVI file to PostScript
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dvips
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.IR file [\fB.dvi\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
THIS MAN PAGE IS OBSOLETE!
See the Texinfo documentation instead.
You can read it either in Emacs or with the standalone 
.B info
program which comes with the GNU texinfo distribution as
ftp.gnu.org:pub/gnu/texinfo/texinfo*.tar.gz.
.PP
The program
.B dvips
takes a DVI file
.IR file [\fB.dvi\fP]
produced by TeX (or by some other processor such as GFtoDVI) and
converts it to PostScript, sending the output to a file or directly to a
printer.  The DVI file may be specified without the
.B .dvi
extension.  Fonts used may either be resident in the printer or defined
as bitmaps in PK files, or a `virtual' combination of both.  If the
.B mktexpk
program is installed,
.B dvips
will automatically invoke METAFONT to generate fonts that don't already
exist.
.PP
For more information, see the Texinfo manual 
.IR dvips.texi ,
which should be installed somewhere on your system, hopefully accessible
through the standard Info tree.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a
Conserve memory by making three passes over the .dvi file instead of two
and only loading those characters actually used.  Generally only useful
on machines with a very limited amount of memory, like some PCs.
.TP
.B -A
Print only odd pages (TeX pages, not sequence pages).
.TP
.B -b num
Generate
.I num
copies of each page, but duplicating the page body rather than using the
.I #numcopies
option.  This can be useful in conjunction with a header file setting
.I \ebop-hook
to do color separations or other neat tricks.
.TP
.B -B
Print only even pages (TeX pages, not sequence pages).
.TP
.B -c num
Generate
.I num
copies of every page.  Default is 1.  (For collated copies, see the
.I -C
option below.)
.TP
.B -C num
Create
.I num 
copies, but collated (by replicating the data in the PostScript file).
Slower than the
.I -c
option, but easier on the hands, and faster than resubmitting the same
PostScript file multiple times.
.TP
.B -d num
Set the debug flags.  This is intended only for emergencies or for
unusual fact-finding expeditions; it will work only if
.B dvips
has been compiled with the DEBUG option.  If nonzero, prints additional
information on standard error.  For maximum information, you can use
`-1'.  See the Dvips Texinfo manual for more details.
.TP
.B -D num
Set the resolution in dpi (dots per inch) to
.IR num .
This affects the choice of bitmap fonts that are loaded and also the
positioning of letters in resident PostScript fonts. Must be between 10
and 10000.  This affects both the horizontal and vertical resolution.
If a high resolution (something greater than 400 dpi, say) is selected,
the
.I -Z
flag should probably also be used.
.TP
.B -e num
Make sure that each character is placed at most this many pixels from
its `true' resolution-independent position on the page. The default
value of this parameter is resolution dependent.  Allowing individual
characters to `drift' from their correctly rounded positions by a few
pixels, while regaining the true position at the beginning of each new
word, improves the spacing of letters in words.
.TP
.B -E
makes
.B dvips
attempt to generate an EPSF file with a tight bounding box.  This only
works on one-page files, and it only looks at marks made by characters
and rules, not by any included graphics.  In addition, it gets the glyph
metrics from the
.I tfm
file, so characters that lie outside their enclosing
.I tfm
box may confuse it.  In addition, the bounding box might be a bit too
loose if the character glyph has significant left or right side
bearings.  Nonetheless, this option works well for creating small EPSF
files for equations or tables or the like.  (Note, of course, that
.B dvips
output is resolution dependent and thus does not make very good EPSF
files, especially if the images are to be scaled; use these EPSF files
with a great deal of care.)
.TP
.B -f
Run as a filter.  Read the
.I .dvi
file from standard input and write the PostScript to standard output.
The standard input must be seekable, so it cannot be a pipe.  If you
must use a pipe, write a shell script that copies the pipe output to a
temporary file and then points
.B dvips
at this file.  This option also disables the automatic reading of the
.I PRINTER
environment variable, and turns off the automatic sending of control D
if it was turned on with the
.I -F
option or in the configuration file; use
.I -F
after this option if you want both.
.TP
.B -F
Causes Control-D (ASCII code 4) to be appended as the very last
character of the PostScript file.  This is useful when
.B dvips
is driving the printer directly instead of working through a spooler,
as is common on extremely small systems.  NOTE! DO NOT USE THIS OPTION!
.TP
.B -G
Causes
.B dvips
to shift non-printing characters to higher-numbered positions.
This may be useful sometimes.
.TP
.B -h name
Prepend file
.I name
as an additional header file. (However, if the name is simply `-'
suppress all header files from the output.)  This header file gets added
to the PostScript
.IR userdict .
.TP
.B -i
Make each section be a separate file.  Under certain circumstances,
.B dvips
will split the document up into `sections' to be processed
independently; this is most often done for memory reasons.  Using this
option tells
.B dvips
to place each section into a separate file; the new file names are
created replacing the suffix of the supplied output file name by a
three-digit sequence number.  This option is most often used in
conjunction with the
.I -S
option which sets the maximum section length in pages.  For instance,
some phototypesetters cannot print more than ten or so consecutive pages
before running out of steam; these options can be used to automatically
split a book into ten-page sections, each to its own file.
.TP
.B -j
Download only needed characters from Type 1 fonts. This is the
default in the current release.  Some debugging flags trace this operation.
You can also control partial downloading on a per-font basis, via the
.B psfonts.map
file.
.TP
.B -k
Print crop marks.  This option increases the paper size (which should be
specified, either with a paper size special or with the
.I -T
option) by a half inch in each dimension.  It translates each page by a
quarter inch and draws cross-style crop marks.  It is mostly useful with
typesetters that can set the page size automatically.
.TP
.B -K
This option causes comments in included PostScript graphics, font files,
and headers to be removed.  This is sometimes necessary to get around
bugs in spoolers or PostScript post-processing programs.  Specifically,
the %%Page comments, when left in, often cause difficulties.  Use of
this flag can cause some included graphics to fail, since the PostScript
header macros from some software packages read portions of the input
stream line by line, searching for a particular comment.  This option
has been turned off by default because PostScript previewers and
spoolers have been getting better.
.TP
.B -l num
The last page printed will be the first one numbered
.I num
Default is the last page in the document.  If the
.I num
is prefixed by an equals sign, then it (and any argument to the
.I -p
option) is treated as a sequence number, rather than a value to compare
with
.I \ecount0
values.  Thus, using
.I -l =9
will end with the ninth page of the document, no matter what the pages
are actually numbered.
.TP
.B -m
Specify manual feed for printer.
.TP
.B -mode mode
Use
.I mode
as the Metafont device name for path searching and font
generation.  This overrides any value from configuration files.  With
the default paths, explicitly specifying the mode also makes the program
assume the fonts are in a subdirectory named
.IR mode .
.TP
.B -M
Turns off the automatic font generation facility.  If any fonts are
missing, commands to generate the fonts are appended to the file
.I missfont.log
in the current directory; this file can then be executed and deleted to
create the missing fonts.
.TP
.B -n num
At most
.I num
pages will be printed. Default is 100000.
.TP
.B -N
Turns off structured comments; this might be necessary on some systems
that try to interpret PostScript comments in weird ways, or on some
PostScript printers.  Old versions of TranScript in particular cannot
handle modern Encapsulated PostScript.
.TP
.BR -noomega
This will disable the use of Omega extensions when interpreting DVI
files.  By default, the additional opcodes
.I 129
and
.I 134
are recognized by dvips as Omega or pTeX extensions and interpreted as
requests to set 2-byte characters.
.TP
.BR -noptex
This will disable the use of pTeX extensions when interpreting DVI files.
By default, the additional opcodes
.I 130
and
.I 135
are recognized by dvips as pTeX extensions and interpreted as requests to
set 3-byte characters, and
.I 255
as request to change the typesetting direction.
.sp
The only drawback is that the virtual font array will (at least temporarily)
require 65536 or more positions instead of the default 256 positions, i.e.,
the memory requirements of dvips will be somewhat larger.  If you find this
unacceptable or encounter another problem with the Omega or pTeX extensions,
you can switch off the pTeX extension by using
.BR -noptex ,
or both by using
.B -noomega
(but please do send a bug report if you find such problems - see the bug
address in the
.B AUTHORS
section below).
.TP
.B -o name
The output will be sent to file
.I name
If no file name is given (i.e., -o is last on the command line), the
default name is
.I file.ps
where the .dvi file was called
.IR file.dvi ;
if this option isn't given, any default in the configuration file is
used.  If the first character of the supplied output file name is an
exclamation mark, then the remainder will be used as an argument to
.IR popen ;
thus, specifying
.I !lpr
as the output file will automatically queue the file for printing.
This option also disables the automatic reading of the
.I PRINTER
environment variable, and turns off the automatic sending of control D
if it was turned on with the
.I -F
option or in the configuration file; use
.I -F
after this option if you want both.
.TP
.B -O offset
Move the origin by a certain amount.  The
.I offset
is a comma-separated pair of dimensions, such as
.I .1in,-.3cm
(in the same syntax used in the
.I papersize
special).  The origin of the page is shifted from the
default position (of one inch down, one inch to the right from the upper
left corner of the paper) by this amount.
.TP
.B -p num
The first page printed will be the first one numbered
.IR num .
Default is the first page in the document.  If the
.I num
is prefixed by an equals sign, then it (and any argument to the
.I -l
option) is treated as a sequence number, rather than a value to compare
with
.I \ecount0
values.  Thus, using
.I -p =3
will start with the third page of the document, no matter what the pages
are actually numbered.
.TP
.B -pp pagelist
A comma-separated list of pages and ranges (a-b) may be given, which
will be interpreted as 
.I \ecount0
values.  Pages not specified will not be printed.  Multiple 
.B -pp
options may be specified or all pages and page ranges can be 
specified with one
.B -pp
option.
.TP
.B -P printername
Sets up the output for the appropriate printer.  This is implemented by
reading in
.I config.printername
, which can then set the output pipe (as in,
.I !lpr -Pprintername
as well as the font paths and any other
.I config.ps
defaults for that printer only.  Note that
.I config.ps
is read before
.I config.printername
In addition, another file called
.I ~/.dvipsrc
is searched for immediately after
.IR config.ps ;
this file is intended for user defaults.  If no
.I -P
command is given, the environment variable
.I PRINTER
is checked.  If that variable exists, and a corresponding configuration
file exists, that configuration file is read in.
.TP
.B -q
Run in quiet mode.  Don't chatter about pages converted, etc.; report
nothing but errors to standard error.
.TP
.B -r
Stack pages in reverse order.  Normally, page 1 will be printed first.
.TP
.B -R[0|1|2]
Run securely.
.BR -R2
disables both shell command execution in
.I \especial'{}
(via backticks
.BR `
) and config files (via the
.I E
option), and opening of any absolute filenames.
.BR -R1
, the default, forbids shell escapes but allows absolute filenames.
.BR -R0
allows both.  The config file option is
.I z
.TP
.B -s
Causes the entire global output to be enclosed in a save/restore pair.
This causes the file to not be truly conformant, and is thus not
recommended, but is useful if you are driving the printer directly and
don't care too much about the portability of the output.
.TP
.B -S num
Set the maximum number of pages in each `section'.  This option is most
commonly used with the
.I -i
option; see that documentation above for more information.
.TP
.B -t papertype
This sets the paper type to
.IR papertype .
The
.I papertype
should be defined in one of the configuration files, along with the
appropriate code to select it.  (Currently known types include
.BR letter ,
.BR legal ,
.BR ledger ,
.BR a4 ,
.BR a3 ).
You can also specify
.BR -t " " landscape ,
which rotates a document by 90 degrees.  To rotate a document whose size
is not letter, you can use the
.I -t
option twice, once for the page size, and once for landscape.
You should not use any
.I -t
option when the DVI file already contains a
.I papersize
special, as is done by some LaTeX packages, notably hyperref.sty.

The upper left corner of each page in the
.I .dvi
file is placed one inch from the left and one inch from the top.  Use of
this option is highly dependent on the configuration file.  Note that
executing the
.B letter
or
.B a4
or other PostScript operators cause the document to be nonconforming and
can cause it not to print on certain printers, so the paper size should
not execute such an operator if at all possible.
.TP
.B -T papersize
Set the paper size to the given pair of dimensions.  This option takes
its arguments in the same style as
.IR -O .
It overrides any paper size special in the dvi file.
.TP
.B -u psmapfile
Set
.I psmapfile
to be the file that dvips uses for looking up PostScript font aliases.  If
.I psmapfile
begins with a
.B +
character, then the rest of the name is used as the name of the map file,
and the map file is appended to the list of map files (instead of replacing
the list).  In either case, if
.I psmapfile
has no extension, then
.B .map
is added at the end.
.TP
.B -U
Disable a PostScript virtual memory saving optimization that stores the
character metric information in the same string that is used to store
the bitmap information.  This is only necessary when driving the Xerox
4045 PostScript interpreter.  It is caused by a bug in that interpreter
that results in `garbage' on the bottom of each character.  Not
recommended unless you must drive this printer.
.TP
.B -v
Print the
.B dvips
version number and exit.
.TP
.B -V
Download non-resident PostScript fonts as bitmaps.  This requires use of
`gsftopk' or `pstopk' or some other such program(s) in order to generate
the required bitmap fonts; these programs are supplied with
.BR dvips .
.TP
.B -x num
Set the
magnification ratio to
.IR num /1000.
Overrides the magnification specified in the .dvi file.  Must be
between 10 and 100000.  Instead of an integer,
.I num
may be a real number for increased precision.
.TP
.B -X num
Set the horizontal resolution in dots per inch to
.IR num .
.TP
.B -y num
Set the
magnification ratio to
.IR num /1000
times the magnification specified in the .dvi file.
See
.B -x
above.
.TP
.B -Y num
Set the vertical resolution in dots per inch to
.IR num .
.TP
.B -z
Pass
.B html
hyperdvi specials through to the output for eventual
distillation into PDF.  This is not enabled by default to avoid
including the header files unnecessarily, and use of temporary files in
creating the output.
.TP
.B -Z
Causes bitmapped fonts to be compressed before they are downloaded,
thereby reducing the size of the PostScript font-downloading
information.  Especially useful at high resolutions or when very large
fonts are used.  Will slow down printing somewhat, especially on early
68000-based PostScript printers.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
mf(1), afm2tfm(1), tex(1), latex(1), lpr(1), 
.IR dvips.texi ,
http://tug.org/dvips.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
Dvipsk uses the same environment variables and algorithms for finding
font files as TeX and its friends do.  See the documentation for the
Kpathsea library for details.  (Repeating it here is too cumbersome.)
.PP
KPATHSEA_DEBUG: Trace Kpathsea lookups; set to -1 for complete tracing.
.PP
PRINTER: see above.
.SH NOTES
PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems Incorporated.
.SH AUTHOR
Tomas Rokicki <rokicki@cs.stanford.edu>; extended to virtual fonts
by Don Knuth.  Path searching and configuration modifications by
Karl Berry.
