.TH "EXTRACTBB" "1" "20 April 2012" "20120420" "DVIPDFMx"
.PP 
.SH "NAME" 
extractbb, ebb \- extract bounding box information from graphics files
.PP 
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP
.B extractbb
.RB [ \-v | \-q ]
.RB [ \-O ]
.RB [ \-m | \-x ]
.IR file \&.\&.\&.
.PP 
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
For each
.SM JPEG\c
,
.SM PNG\c
, or
.SM PDF
file given on the command line,
.B extractbb
extracts the bounding box information and writes it into a file with extension
.BR .xbb ,
together with some header information. These files can then be used by
.B dvipdfmx
or other programs. For
.SM PDF
files, the number of pages and the
.SM PDF
version number are reported as well.
The input filename extension may be in upper or lower case.
.PP
If called as
.BR ebb ,
the output is written in the ``bb'' format (and with extension
.BR .bb )
as used by
.BR dvipdfm .
.B Xbb
may be defined as a synomym for
.B extractbb
on your system.
.PP
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.PD 0
.TP 10
.B -v
Be verbose.
.TP
.B -q
Be quiet.
.TP
.B -O
Write output to standard output.
.TP
.B -m
Write output in dvipdfm's ``bb'' format.
.TP
.B -x
Write output in dvipdfmx's ``xbb'' format (default), which is the same
as that used by pdfTeX.
.PD
.PP
.SH "OUTPUT FORMATS"
.PP
Here are more details about the bb and xbb formats:
.PP
The original ebb (from dvipdfm) ignored density information in bitmap
images, and generated bounding boxes with 100px = 72bp = 1in.
Unfortunately, screenshots (especially) tend to look bad with this
approach.
.PP
So, extractbb (from dvipdfmx) uses density information if present.
Otherwise, it generates bounding box with 100px = 100bp.  This is what
pdfTeX does.
.SH "BUGS"
.PP
There is currently no way to specify which bounding box is taken
for
.SM PDF
files. It will always be the first one from the following
list: ArtBox, TrimBox, BleedBox, MediaBox. (Often only MediaBox
is defined.) Moreover, the reported bounding box always refers
to the first page in a
.SM PDF
file.
.PP
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
\fBextractbb\fP was written by the DVIPDFMx project team
<dvipdfmx@ktug.or.kr>, based on the program \fBebb\fP by Mark A. Wicks.
.PP 
This manual page was also written by the DVIPDFMx project team,
based on a manual page Frank K\[:u]ster <frank@kuesterei\&.ch>
wrote for the Debian GNU/Linux system\&. 
It may be used, modified, and/or redistributed by others without
contacting the authors\&.
