.\" Copyright (c) 1990-2013  Paul Vojta and others
.\"
.\" This is Paul's license, included here only for reference, it does not apply
.\" to all parts of the k version.
.\" ----
.\" Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
.\" of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
.\" deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
.\" rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
.\" sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
.\" furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
.\"
.\" The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
.\" all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
.\" IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
.\" FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL
.\" PAUL VOJTA OR ANY OTHER AUTHOR OF THIS SOFTWARE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
.\" DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
.\" ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
.\" DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
.\" ----
.\" This is the xdvik license:
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" following is UGLY ... use La\*(Te\& instead:
.\" .if t .ds La L\\h'-0.1667m'\\v'-0.20v'A\\v'0.20v'\\h'-0.1667m'T\\h'-0.1667m'\\v'0.20v'E\\v'-0.20v'\\h'-0.125m'X
.\" .if n .ds La LaTeX
.if t .ds Te T\\h'-0.1667m'\\v'0.20v'E\\v'-0.20v'\\h'-0.125m'X
.if n .ds Te TeX
.\" # small and boldface (not all -man's provide it)
.de SB
\&\fB\s-1\&\\$1 \\$2\s0\fR
..
.TH XDVI 1 "2013-04-04" "Xdvik 22.86"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH NAME
xdvi \- DVI Previewer for the X Window System
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xdvi
.nh
[\fB+\fP[\fIpage\fP]]
[\fB\--help\fP]
[\fB\-allowshell\fP]
[\fB\-altfont\fP \fIfont\fP]
[\fB\-bg\fP \fIcolor\fP]
[\fB\-browser\fP \fIWWWbrowser\fP]
[\fB\-copy\fP]
[\fB\-cr\fP \fIcolor\fP]
[\fB\-debug\fP \fIbitmask\fP|\fIstring[,string ...]\fP]
[\fB\-display\fP \fIhost:display\fP]
[\fB\-dvipspath\fP \fIpath\fP]
[\fB\-editor\fP \fIcommand\fP]
[\fB\-expert\fP]
[\fB\-expertmode\fP \fIflag\fP]
[\fB\-fg\fP \fIcolor\fP]
[\fB\-findstring\fP \fIstring\fP]
[\fB\-text-encoding\fP \fIencoding\fP]
[\fB\-font\fP \fIfont\fP]
[\fB\-fullscreen \fP]
[\fB\-gamma\fP \fIg\fP]
[\fB\-geometry\fP \fIgeometry\fP]
[\fB\-gsalpha\fP]
[\fB\-gspalette\fP \fIpalette\fP]
[\fB\-h\fP]
[\fB\-help\fP]
[\fB\-hl\fP \fIcolor\fP]
[\fB\-anchorposition\fP \fIanchor\fP]
[\fB\-hush\fP]
[\fB\-hushchars\fP]
[\fB\-hushchecksums\fP]
[\fB\-warnpecials\fP]
[\fB\-hushstdout\fP]
[\fB\-hushbell\fP]
[\fB\-icongeometry\fP \fIgeometry\fP]
[\fB\-iconic\fP]
[\fB\-install\fP]
[\fB\-interpreter\fP \fIpath\fP]
[\fB\-keep\fP]
[\fB\-l\fP]
[\fB\-license\fP]
[\fB\-linkcolor\fP \fIcolor\fP]
[\fB\-linkstyle\fP \fI0|1|2|3\fP]
[\fB\-margins\fP \fIdimen\fP]
[\fB\-mfmode\fP \fImode-def\fP[\fB:\fP\fIdpi\fP]]
[\fB\-mgs\fP[\fIn\fP] \fIsize\fP]
[\fB\-mousemode\fP \fI0|1|2\fP]
[\fB\-nocolor\fP] 
[\fB\-nofork\fP]
[\fB\-noghostscript\fP]
[\fB\-nogrey\fP]
[\fB\-nogssafer\fP]
[\fB\-noinstall\fP]
[\fB\-nomakepk\fP]
[\fB\-nomatchinverted\fP]
[\fB\-noomega\fP]
[\fB\-noscan\fP]
[\fB\-notype1fonts\fP]
[\fB\-notempfile\fP]
[\fB\-offsets\fP \fIdimen\fP]
[\fB\-p\fP \fIpixels\fP]
[\fB\-paper\fP \fIpapertype\fP]
[\fB\-pause\fP]
[\fB\-pausespecial\fP \fIspecial-string\fP]
[\fB\-postscript\fP \fIflag\fP]
[\fB\-rulecolor\fP \fIcolor\fP] 
[\fB\-rv\fP]
[\fB\-S\fP \fIdensity\fP]
[\fB\-s\fP \fIshrink\fP]
[\fB\-safer\fP]
[\fB\-sidemargin\fP \fIdimen\fP]
[\fB\-sourceposition\fP \fIline\fP[\fB:\fP\fIcol\fP][\ ]\fIfilename\fP]
[\fB\-statusline\fP]
[\fB\-thorough\fP]
[\fB\-topmargin\fP \fIdimen\fP]
[\fB\-unique\fP]
[\fB\-version\fP]
[\fB\-visitedlinkcolor\fP \fIcolor\fP]
[\fB\-warnspecials\fP]
[\fB\-watchfile\fP \fIsecs\fP]
[\fB\-wheelunit\fP \fIpixels\fP]
[\fB\-xoffset\fP \fIdimen\fP]
[\fB\-yoffset\fP \fIdimen\fP]
[\fIdvi_file\fP]
.hy
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Xdvi
is a program for previewing
.I dvi
files, as produced e.g. by the
.BR tex (1)
program, under the X window system.
.PP
.B Xdvi
can show the file shrunken by various
integer factors, and it has a ``magnifying glass'' for viewing
parts of the page enlarged (see the section MAGNIFIER below). This version
of
.B xdvi
is also referred to as
.B xdvik
since it uses the kpathsea library to locate and generate font files.
In addition to that, it supports the following features:
.RS 2
.TP 2
-
hyperlinks in DVI files (section HYPERLINKS),
.TP
-
direct rendering of PostScript<tm> Type 1 fonts (section TYPE 1 FONTS),
.TP
-
source specials in the DVI file (section SOURCE SPECIALS),
.TP
-
string search in DVI files (section STRING SEARCH),
.TP
-
saving or printing (parts of) the DVI file (sections PRINT DIALOG and SAVE DIALOG).
.RE
.PP
.B Xdvi
can be compiled with the Motif toolkit or the Xaw (Athena) toolkit
(and variants of it), and the Motif version has a slightly different GUI;
these differences are noted below.
.PP
Before displaying a page of a DVI file,
.B xdvi
will check to see if the file has changed since the last time it was
displayed.  If this is the case, it will reload the file.  This
feature allows you to preview many versions of the same file while
running
.B xdvi
only once. Since it cannot read partial DVI files,
.B xdvik
versions starting from 22.74.3 will create a temporary copy of the
DVI file being viewed, to ensure that the file can be viewed without
interruptions. (The
.B \-notempfile
can be used to turn off this feature).
.PP
.B Xdvi
can show PostScript<tm> specials by any of three methods.
It will try first to use Display PostScript<tm>, then NeWS, then it
will try to use Ghostscript to render the images.  All of these options
depend on additional software to work properly; moreover, some of them
may not be compiled into this copy of
.BR xdvi .
.PP
For performance reasons,
.B xdvi
does not render PostScript specials in the magnifying glass.
.PP
If no file name has been specified on the command line,
xdvi will try to open the most recently opened file; if the file
history (accessible via the
.B File > Open Recent
menu) is empty, or if none of the files in the history are valid DVI files,
it will pop up a file selector for choosing a file name.
(In previous versions, which didn't have a file history, the file selector
was always used; you can set the X resource
.B noFileArgUseHistory
to
.I false
to get back the old behaviour.)
.PP
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH OPTIONS
In addition to specifying the
.I dvi
file (with or without the
.B .dvi
extension),
.B xdvi
supports the following command line options.  If the option begins with a
.RB ` + '
instead of a
.RB ` \- ',
the option is restored to its default value.  By default, these options can
be set via the resource names given in parentheses in the description of
each option.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI + page
Specifies the first page to show.  If
.B +
is given without a number, the last page is assumed; the first page is
the default.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-allowshell
.RB ( .allowShell )
This option enables the shell escape in PostScript specials.
(For security reasons, shell escapes are disabled by default.)
This option should be rarely used; in particular it should not be used just
to uncompress files: that function is done automatically if the file name
ends in
.BR .Z ,
.BR .gz ,
or
.BR .bz2 .
Shell escapes are always turned off if the
.B \-safer
option is used.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-altfont " font"
.RB ( .altFont )
Declares a default font to use when the font in the
.I dvi
file cannot be found.  This is useful, for example, with PostScript <tm> fonts.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-background " color"
.RB ( .background )
Determines the color of the background.  Same as
.BR -bg .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-bg " color"
.RB ( .background )
Determines the color of the background.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-browser " browser"
.RB ( .wwwBrowser )
Defines the web browser used for handling external URLs. The value of this
option or resource has the same syntax as the
.B BROWSER
environment variable; see the explanation of that variable in the
section `ENVIRONMENT' below for a detailed description.
If neither the option nor the X resource
.I wwwBrowser
is specified, the environment variables
.B BROWSER
and
.B WWWBROWSER
(in that order) are used to determine the browser command. If these are
not set either, the following default value is used:
\fBxdg-open %s:htmlview %s:firefox -remote -remote "openURL(%s,new-window)":mozilla -remote "openURL(%s,new-window)":netscape -raise -remote "openURL(%s,new-window)":xterm -e w3m %s:xterm -e lynx %s:xterm -e wget %s\fP
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-copy
.RB ( .copy )
Always use the
.I copy
operation when writing characters to the display.
This option may be necessary for correct operation on a color display, but
overstrike characters will be incorrect.
If greyscale anti-aliasing is in use, the
.B \-copy
operation will disable the use of colorplanes and make overstrikes come
out incorrectly.
See also
.BR \-thorough .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-cr " color"
.RB ( .cursorColor )
Determines the color of the mouse cursor.  The default is the same as
the foreground color.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-debug " bitmask|string[,string ...]"
.RB ( .debugLevel )
If nonzero, prints additional information on standard output.  The
argument can be either a bitmask specified as a decimal number, or
comma-separated list of strings.
.br
For the bitmask representation, multiple values can
be specified by adding the numbers that represent the individual bits;
e.g. to debug all all file searching and opening commands, use 4032
(= 2048 + 1024 + 512 + 256 + 128 + 64). Use -1 to turn on debugging
of everything (this will produce huge output).
.br
For the string representation, use the strings listed in the following
table, with a comma to separate the values; e.g. to debug
all file searching and opening commands, use
.BR search,expand,paths,hash,stat,open .
(The option `kpathsea' is provided as a shorthand for these.)
Note that such a list may need to be quoted to prevent the shell
from interpreting commas or spaces in the list.
.br
The individual numbers and strings have the following meanings:
.nf
.sp 1n
.ta 1L +8L +12L
	1	bitmap	Bitmap creation
	2	dvi	DVI translation
	4	pk	PK fonts
	8	batch	Batch mode: Exit after
			reading the DVI file
	16	event	Event handling
	32	ps	PostScript interpreter calls
	64	stat	Kpathsea stat(2) calls
	128	hash	Kpathsea hash table lookups
	256	open	Kpathsea file opening
	512	paths	Kpathsea path definitions
	1024	expand	Kpathsea path expansion
	2048	search	Kpathsea searching
	4032	kpathsea	All Kpathsea options
	4096	htex	Hypertex specials
	8192	src	Source specials
	16384	client	Client/server mode (see -unique
			and -sourceposition options)
	32768	ft	FreeType library messages (Type 1 fonts)
	65536	ft_verbose	Verbose FreeType library messages (currently unused)
	131072	gui	GUI elements
.sp 1n
.fi
Some of the Kpathsea debugging options are actually provided by Kpathsea;
see the Debugging section in the Kpathsea manual for more information on
these.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-density " density"
.RB ( .densityPercent )
Determines the density used when shrinking bitmaps for fonts.
A higher value produces a lighter font.  The default value is 40.
If greyscaling is in use, this argument does not apply; use
.B \-gamma
instead.
See also the
.RB ` S '
keystroke.
Same as
.BR \-S .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-display " host" : display
Specifies the host and screen to be used for displaying the
.I dvi
file.  By default this is obtained from the environment variable
.SB DISPLAY.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-dvipspath " path"
.RB ( .dvipsPath )
Use
.I path
as the
.B dvips
program to use when printing.  The default for this is
.BR dvips .
The program or script should read the DVI file from standard input,
and write the PostScript file to standard output.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-editor " editor"
.RB ( .editor )
Specifies the editor that will be invoked when the
.I source-special()
action is triggered to start a reverse search (by default via Ctrl-Mouse 1).
The argument to this option is a format string in which occurrences of
.RB `` %f ''
are replaced by the file name, occurrences of
.RB `` %l ''
are replaced by the line number within the file, and optional
occurrences of
.RB `` %c ''
are replaced by the column number within the line.
.sp
If neither the option nor the X resource
.I .editor
is specified, the following environment variables are checked
to determine the editor command:
.BR XEDITOR ,
.BR VISUAL ,
and
.B EDITOR 
(in this sequence). If the string is found as the value
of the
.SB VISUAL
or
.SB EDITOR
environment variables, then
.RI `` "xterm -e "''
is prepended to the string; if the editor is specified by other means, then
it must be in the form of a shell command to pop up an X window with an
editor in it. If none of these variables is set, a warning message is displayed
and the command
.RI `` "xterm -e vi +%l %f"''
is used.
.sp
If no
.RB `` %f ''
or
.RB `` %l ''
occurs in the string, the missing format strings are appended automatically.
(This is for compatibility with other programs when using one of the environment
variables).
.sp
A new instance of the editor is started each time this command is used;
therefore it is preferable to use an editor that can be invoked in
`client' mode to load new files into the same instance. Example
settings are:
.RS 7
.TP 7
.SB emacsclient --no-wait
(older Emacsen)
.TP
.SB gnuclient -q
(XEmacs and newer Emacsen)
.TP
.SB gvim --servername xdvi --remote
(VIM v6.0+; the `--servername xdvi' option will cause gvim to run a
dedicated instance for the files opened by xdvi.)
.TP
.SB nc
(nedit)
.PP
.sp
Note that those strings need to be enclosed
into quotes when using them on the command-line
to protect them from the shell; when using them
as argument for the
.I .editor
resource in an X resource file, no quotes should be used.
.sp
.B NOTE ON SECURITY:
The argument of this option isn't executed as a shell command,
but via
.I exec()
to prevent evil tricks with the contents of source specials.
.RE
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-expert
This option is only supported for backwards compatibility;
it is equivalent to
.BR "\-expertmode 0" ,
which should be preferred.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-expertmode " flag"
.RB ( .expertMode )
With an argument of
.IR 0 ,
this option switches off the display of the buttons, scrollbars,
the toolbar (Motif only),
the statusline and the page list. These GUI elements
can also be (de)activated separately, by combining the
appropriate values in the
.I flag
argument. This acts similar to the
.B \-debug
option: The integer
.I flag
is treated as a bitmap where each bit represents one
element. If the bit has the value
.IR 1 ,
the element is switched on, if it has the value
.IR 0 ,
the element is switched off. The meaning of the bits
is as follows:
.nf
.sp 1n
.ta 1L +8L +12L
	1	statusline
	2	scrollbars
	4	Motif: pagelist, Xaw: buttons and pagelist
	8	toolbar (Motif only)
	16	menubar (Motif only)
.sp 1n
.fi
For example, to turn on only the statusline and the scrollbars,
use 3 (= 1 + 2).
See also the
.RB ` x '
keystroke, where the bits are addressed by their positions, from 1 to
3 (Xaw) or 5 (Motif), respectively.
.PP
If the statusline is not active, all messages
that would normally be printed to the statusline will be printed to
.IR stdout ,
unless the
.B \-hushstdout
option is used.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-fg " color"
.RB ( .foreground )
Determines the color of the text (foreground).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-text-encoding " encoding"
.RB ( .textEncoding )
Use
.I encoding
as text encoding of the string in the "Find" window. Usually,
this shouldn't be needed since the encoding is determined from the locale settings.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-findstring\fP \fIstring\fP
This option triggers a search for
.I string
in the DVI file mentioned on the command-line, similar to forward search
(see the description of the
.B sourceposition
option):
If there is already another
instance of
.B xdvi
running on the displaying that DVI file, it will cause that instance
to perform the search instead. The search starts at the top of the current
page of the DVI file.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-font " font"
.RB ( *font )
Sets the font used in menus, buttons etc., as described in the
.I X(7x)
man page. The font for child windows can be set separately,
e.g.:
.RS 7
.nf
.ft 3
.sp 1n
xdvi*statusline*font: \e
   -*-helvetica-medium-r-*-*-12-*-*-*-*-*-*-*
.sp 1n
.ft
.fi
.RE
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-foreground " color"
Same as
.BR -fg .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-fullscreen
When this option is used, xdvi will (try to) run in fullscreen mode, with
no window decorations.
This option is not guaranteed to work with all windowmanagers/desktops;
if you're experiencing problems with it, please use the
.B \-geometry
option instead, and a suitable window manager setting to remove
the window decorations.
When using this option for presentations, you might want
to get rid of all the control widgets as well, using the
.B -expertmode
option. This option can also be toggled at runtime using the
.B fullscreen
action (by default bound to Ctrl-l).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-gamma " gamma"
.RB ( .gamma )
Controls the interpolation of colors in the greyscale anti-aliasing color
palette.  Default value is 1.0.  For 0 <
.I gamma
< 1, the fonts will be lighter (more like the background), and for
.I gamma
> 1, the fonts will be darker (more like the foreground).  Negative
values behave the same way, but use a slightly different algorithm.
For color and grayscale displays; for monochrome, see
.BR \-density .
See also the
.RB ` S '
keystroke.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-geometry " geometry"
.RB ( .geometry )
Specifies the initial geometry of the main window,
as described in the
.I X(7x)
man page. The geometry of child windows can be set
separately, e.g.:
.br
.I xdvi*helpwindow.geometry: 600x800
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-gsalpha
.RB ( .gsAlpha )
Causes
.B Ghostscript
to be called with the
.B x11alpha
driver instead of the
.B x11
driver.  The
.B x11alpha
driver enables anti-aliasing in PostScript specials, for a nicer appearance.
It is available on newer versions of
.BR Ghostscript .
This option can also be toggled with the
.RB ` V '
keystroke.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-gspalette " palette"
.RB ( .palette )
Specifies the palette to be used when using Ghostscript for rendering
PostScript specials.  Possible values are
.BR Color ,
.BR Greyscale ,
and
.BR Monochrome .
The default is
.BR Color .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BR \-h , " \-help" , " \--help"
Prints a short help text with an overview of the command-line options
to standard output.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-hl " color"
.RB ( .highlight )
Determines the color of the page border, of the ruler in `ruler mode',
and of the highlighting markers in forward search and string search.
The default is the foreground color.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-anchorposition " anchor"
Jump to
.I anchor
after opening the DVI file. This is only useful when invoking
.B xdvi
from other applications.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-hush
.RB ( .Hush )
Causes
.B xdvi
to suppress all suppressible warnings.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-hushchars
.RB ( .hushLostChars )
Causes
.B xdvi
to suppress warnings about references to characters which are not defined
in the font.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-hushchecksums
.RB ( .hushChecksums )
Causes
.B xdvi
to suppress warnings about checksum mismatches between the
.I dvi
file and the font file.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-hushstdout
.RB ( .hushStdout )
Suppresses printing of status messages to
.IR stdout .
Note that errors or warnings will still be printed to
.I stderr
even if this option is used.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-hushbell
.RB ( .hushBell )
Don't sound the X bell when an error occurs.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-icongeometry " geometry"
.RB ( .iconGeometry )
Specifies the initial position for the icon.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-iconic
.RB ( .iconic )
Causes the
.B xdvi
window to start in the iconic state.  The default is to start with the
window open.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-install
.RB ( .install )
If
.B xdvi
is running under a
.B PseudoColor
visual, then (by default) it will check for
.B TrueColor
visuals with more bits per pixel, and switch to such a visual if one exists.
If no such visual exists, it will use the current visual and colormap.  If
.B \-install
is selected, however, it will still use a
.B TrueColor
visual with a greater depth, if one is available; otherwise, it will
install its own colormap on the current visual.  If the current visual is not
.BR PseudoColor ,
then
.B xdvi
will not switch the visual or colormap, regardless of its options.
The default value of the
.B install
resource is the special value,
.BR maybe .
There is no
.B +install
option.  See also
.BR \-noinstall ,
and the GREYSCALING AND COLORMAPS section.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-interpreter " filename"
.RB ( .interpreter )
Use
.I filename
as the Ghostscript interpreter.  By default it uses
.BR gs .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-keep
.RB ( .keepPosition )
Sets a flag to indicate that
.B xdvi
should not move to the home position when moving to a new page.  See also the
.RB ` k '
keystroke. This flag is honored by all page switching actions and by
.B up-or-previous() /
.BR down-or-next() ,
although the latter only honor the horizontal postion, not the vertical one.
This allows for a "continuous" scrolling back an forth through a document with
a display window narrower than a page width.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-l
.RB ( .listFonts )
List the names of all fonts used.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-license
Prints licensing information.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-linkcolor
.RB ( .linkColor )
Color used for unvisited hyperlinks (`Blue2' by default). Hyperlinks
are unvisited before you click on them, or after the DVI file has been reloaded.
The value should be either a valid X color name (such as
.IR DarkGoldenrod4 )
or a hexadecimal color string (such as
.IR #8b6508 ).
See also
.B \-visitedlinkcolor
and
.BR \-linkstyle .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-linkstyle
.RB ( .LinkStyle )
Determines the style in which hyperlinks are displayed. Possible
values and their meanings are:
.nf
.sp 1n
.ta 1L +8L
	0	No highlighting of links
	1	Underline links with \fIlink color\fR
	2	No underlining, color text with \fIlink color\fR
	3	Underline and display text colored with
		\fIlink color\fR
.sp 1n
.fi
The values for \fIlink color\fR are specified by the options/resources
.BI \-linkcolor
and
.BI \-visitedlinkcolor
(which see).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-margins " dimen"
.RB ( .Margin )
Specifies the size of both the top margin and side margin.
This determines the ``home'' position of the page within the window as
follows.  If the entire page fits in the window, then the margin settings
are ignored.  If, even after removing the margins from the left, right,
top, and bottom, the page still cannot fit in the window, then the page
is put in the window such that the top and left margins are hidden, and
presumably the upper left-hand corner of the text on the page will be
in the upper left-hand corner of the window.
Otherwise, the text is centered in the window.
The dimension should be a decimal number optionally followed by
any of the two-letter abbreviations for units accepted by \*(Te\&
.RB ( pt ,
.BR pc ,
.BR in ,
.BR bp ,
.BR cm ,
.BR mm ,
.BR dd ,
.BR cc ,
or
.BR sp ).
By default, the unit will be
.BR cm " (centimeters)".
See also
.BR \-sidemargin ", " \-topmargin ,
and the keystroke
.RB ` M .'
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-mfmode " mode-def"
.RB ( .mfMode )
Specifies a
.I mode-def
string, which can be used in searching for fonts (see ENVIRONMENT, below).
Generally, when changing the
.IR mode-def ,
it is also necessary to change the font size to the appropriate value
for that mode.  This is done by adding a colon and the value in dots per inch;
for example,
.BR "\-mfmode ljfour:600" .
This method overrides any value given by the
.B pixelsPerInch
resource or the
.B \-p
command-line argument.
The metafont mode is also passed to
.B metafont
during automatic creation of fonts.
By default, it is
.BR "unspecified" .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-mgs " size"
Same as
.BR \-mgs1 .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-mgs[ n ] " size"
.RB ( .magnifierSize\fR[\fIn\fR] )
Specifies the size of the window to be used for the ``magnifying glass''
for Button
.IR n .
The size may be given as an integer (indicating that the magnifying glass
is to be square), or it may be given in the form
.IR width x height .
See the MOUSE ACTIONS section.  Defaults are 200x150, 400x250, 700x500,
1000x800, and 1200x1200.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-mousemode " " [ 0 | 1 | 2 ]
.RB ( .mouseMode )
Specifies the default mode of xdvi at startup: Magnifier (0), Text Selection Mode (1)
or Ruler Mode (2). See the section
.BR MODES ,
below, for more information.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-nocolor
.RB ( .color )
Turns off the use of color specials.  This option can be toggled with the
.RB ` C '
keystroke.
(Note:
.B \-nocolor
corresponds to
.BR color:off ;
.B +nocolor
to
.BR color:on .)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-nofork
.RB ( .fork )
With the
.B \-sourceposition
and
.B \-unique
options, the default behavior is for
.B xdvi
to put itself into the background (like a daemon) if there
is no appropriate instance of
.B xdvi
already running.
This argument makes it run in the foreground instead.  This is useful
for debugging, or if your client application cannot deal well with
a program self-backgrounding itself in this way -- e.g., the IPC functions
in
.B emacs
are known to have problems with this.
If no
.B \-sourceposition
or
.B \-unique
argument is given, then this option has no effect.
(Note:
.B \-nofork
corresponds to
.BR fork:off ;
.B +nofork
to
.BR fork:on .)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-noghostscript
.RB ( .ghostscript )
Inhibits the use of Ghostscript for displaying PostScript<tm> specials.
(Note:
.B \-noghostscript
corresponds to
.BR ghostscript:off ;
.B +noghostscript
to
.BR ghostscript:on .)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-nogrey
.RB ( .grey )
Turns off the use of greyscale anti-aliasing when printing shrunken bitmaps.
(Note:
.B \-nogrey
corresponds to
.BR grey:off ;
.B +nogrey
to
.BR grey:on .)
See also the
.RB ` G '
keystroke.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-nogssafer
.RB ( .gsSafer )
Normally, if Ghostscript is used to render PostScript specials, the Ghostscript
interpreter is run with the option
.BR \-dSAFER .
The
.B \-nogssafer
option runs Ghostscript without
.BR \-dSAFER .
The
.B \-dSAFER
option in Ghostscript disables PostScript operators such as
.BR deletefile ,
to prevent possibly malicious PostScript programs from having any effect.
If the
.B \-safer
option is specified, then this option has no effect; in that case Ghostscript
is always run with
.BR \-dSAFER .
(Note:
.B \-nogssafer
corresponds to
.BR gsSafer:off ;
.B +nogssafer
to
.BR gsSafer:on .)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-noinstall
.RB ( .install )
Inhibit the default behavior of switching to a
.B TrueColor
visual if one is available with more bits per pixel than the current visual.
(Note:
\-noinstall
corresponds
.BR install:off ;
there is no
.B +noinstall
option.)
See also
.BR \-install ,
and the GREYSCALING AND COLORMAPS section.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-nomakepk
.RB ( .makePk )
Turns off automatic generation of font files that cannot be found by other
means.
(Note:
.B \-nomakepk
corresponds to
.BR makePk:off ;
.B +nomakepk
to
.BR makePK:on .)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-nomatchinverted
.RB ( .matchInverted )
Don't highlight string search matches in inverted color; instead, draw a rectangle in
.I highlight
color (see the
.B \-hl
option) around the match. This option is activated automatically if
the display isn't running in TrueColor.
(Note:
.B \-nomatchinverted
corresponds to
.BR matchInverted:off ;
.B +nomatchinverted
to
.BR matchInverted:on .)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-noomega
.RB ( .omega )
This will disable the use of Omega extensions when interpreting DVI files.
By default, the additional opcodes
.I 129
and
.I 134
are recognized by xdvi as Omega extensions and interpreted as requests
to set 2-byte characters. The only drawback is that the virtual font
array will require 65536 positions instead of the default 256 positions,
i.e. the memory requirements of xdvi will be slightly larger. If you find
this unacceptable or encounter another problem with the Omega extensions,
you can switch this extension off by using
.B \-noomega
(but please do send a bug report if you find such problems - see the bug
address in the
.B AUTHORS
section below).
.br
(Note:
.B \-noomega
corresponds to
.BR "omega: off" ;
.B +noomega
to
.BR "omega: on" .)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-noscan
.RB ( .prescan )
By default,
.B xdvi
does a preliminary scan of the
.I dvi
file to process any
.B papersize
specials; this is especially important at startup since the paper size may be
needed to determine the window size.
If PostScript<tm> is in use, then prescanning is also necessary in order to
properly process header files.
In addition, prescanning is needed to correctly determine the background color
of a page.
This option turns off such prescanning.
(Prescanning will be automatically be turned back on if
.B xdvi
detects any of the specials mentioned above.)
(Note:
.B \-noscan
corresponds to
.BR prescan:off ;
.B +noscan
to
.BR prescan:on .)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-notype1fonts
.RB ( .type1 )
This will disable the use of the FreeType library to display PostScript<tm>
Type 1 fonts.
Use this option as a workaround when you encounter problems with the
display of Type 1 fonts (but please don't forget to send a bug report in
this case, to the URL mentioned in the section AUTHORS below).
.br
(Note:
.B \-notype1fonts
corresponds to
.BR type1:off ;
.B +notype1fonts
to
.BR type1:on .)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-notempfile
.RB ( .tempFile )
As mentioned in the section
.B DESCRIPTION
above, xdvi will create a temporary copy of the DVI file so that it
can be accessed without interruptions even while the file is being
rewritten by 
.BR TeX .
Since this introduces the overhead of copying the file every time
it has changed, the
.B \-notempfile
allows you to turn off this behaviour. In this case, exposing parts of the
window while the DVI file is being written by \*(Te\& will erase the current
window contents until the DVI file can be completely reread.
.br
(Note:
.B \-notempfile
corresponds to
.BR tempFile:off ;
.B +notempfile
to
.BR tempFile:on .)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-offsets " dimen"
.RB ( .Offset )
Specifies the size of both the horizontal and vertical offsets of the
output on the page.  By decree of the Stanford \*(Te\& Project,
the default \*(Te\& page origin is always 1 inch over and down from
the top-left page corner, even when non-American paper sizes are used.
Therefore, the default offsets are 1.0 inch.
The argument
.I dimen
should be a decimal number optionally followed by any of the two-letter
abbreviations for units accepted by \*(Te\&
.RB ( pt ,
.BR pc ,
.BR in ,
.BR bp ,
.BR cm ,
.BR mm ,
.BR dd ,
.BR cc ,
or
.BR sp ).
By default, the unit will be
.BR cm " (centimeters)".
See also
.B \-xoffset
and
.BR \-yoffset .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-p " pixels"
.RB ( .pixelsPerInch )
Defines the size of the fonts to use, in pixels per inch.  The
default value is 600.  This option is provided only for backwards
compatibility; the preferred  way is to set both the resolution
and the Metafont mode via the
.B \-mfmode
option (which see).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-paper " papertype"
.RB ( .paper )
Specifies the size of the printed page. Note that in most cases it's
best to specify the paper size in the TeX input file via the line
.sp
.B \eusepackage[dvips]{geometry}
.sp
which will be recognized by both dvips and xdvi; in that case the
use of a `-paper' option should be unnecessary.
.br
The paper size may be specified in the form
\fIwidth\fBx\fIheight\fR optionally followed by a unit, where
.I width
and
.I height
are decimal numbers giving the width and height of the paper, respectively,
and the unit is any of the two-letter abbreviations for units accepted
by \*(Te\&
.RB ( pt ,
.BR pc ,
.BR in ,
.BR bp ,
.BR cm ,
.BR mm ,
.BR dd ,
.BR cc ,
or
.BR sp ).
By default, the unit is
.BR cm " (centimeters)"\fR.
.br
There are also synonyms which may be used:
.B us
(8.5x11in),
.B legal
(8.5x14in),
.B foolscap
(13.5x17in),
as well as the ISO sizes
.BR a1 - a7 ,
.BR b1 - b7 ,
.BR c1 - c7 .
Each of these also has a landscape or `rotated' variant:
.B usr
(11x8.5in),
.BR a1r - a7r ,
etc. For compatibility with
.BR dvips ,
the formats
.B letter
(8.5x11in),
.B ledger
(17x11in)
and
.B tabloid
(11x17in)
are also supported (these don't have rotated variants).
.br
Any of the above sizes may be preceded by a plus sign
.RB (` + ');
this causes the paper size given here to override any paper size given in the
.I dvi
file.  The default paper size is 21 x 29.7 cm (A4 size).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-pause
.RB ( .pause )
This option provides a simple implementation of incremental
(stepwise) display, which can be used for presentations.
When this option is used,
.B xdvi
will pause the display of the current page whenever it encounters a
special
.I special-string
.RI ( xdvi:pause
by default; the string can be customized via
.IR \-pausespecial ,
see below), and the cursor will change its shape.  The action
.B unpause-or-next()
(by default bound to the
.B Space
key) will display the next portion of the page up to the following
.IR special-string ,
or until the end of the page is reached.
When the option is not used, specials containing
.I special-string
will be ignored.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-pausespecial " special-string"
.RB ( .pauseSpecial )
Sets the special string that causes xdvi to pause when the
.I -pause
option is active. The default value of
.I special-string
is
.IR xdvi:pause .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-postscript " flag"
.RB ( .postscript )
If
.I flag = 0,
rendering of PostScript<tm> specials is disabled; instead, bounding
boxes will be displayed (if available). A value of
.I 1
(the default) switches PostScript<tm> specials on. With a value of
.IR 2 ,
the PostScript<tm> specials are displayed along with their
bounding boxes; this allows you to visually check the correctness
of the bounding boxes. The values can also be toggled at runtime
with the
.RB ` v '
keystroke and the corresponding numerical prefix arguments 0, 1 and 2.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-ps2pdfpath " path"
.RB ( .ps2pdfPath )
Use
.I path
as a conversion program from PostScript to PDF. The program or script
should accept two command-line arguments: The PostScript file as first
argument, and the PDF output file as second argument.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-rulecolor " color"
.RB ( .ruleColor )
Determines the color of the rules used for the the magnifier
(default: foreground color).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-q
.RB ( .noInitFile )
Ignore the
.I $HOME/.xdvirc
startup file (i.e. don't read it at startup, and don't write it
at exit). This forces the defaults defined in
.I $HOME/.Xdefaults
to be used. See
.B FILES
for more information on
.IR $HOME/.xdvirc .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-rv
.RB ( .reverseVideo )
Causes the page to be displayed with white characters on a black background,
instead of vice versa.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-S " density"
.RB ( .densityPercent )
Same as
.B \-density
(which see).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-s " shrink"
.RB ( .shrinkFactor )
Defines the initial shrink factor.  The default value is 8.  If
.I shrink
is given as 0, then the initial shrink factor is computed so that the
page fits within the window (as if the `s' keystroke were given without
a number).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-safer
.RB ( .safer )
This option turns on all available security options; it is designed for use when
.B xdvi
is called by a browser that obtains a
.I dvi
or \*(Te\& file from another site.
This option selects
.B +nogssafer
and
.BR +allowshell .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-sidemargin " dimen"
.RB ( .sideMargin )
Specifies the side margin (see
.BR \-margins ).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-sourceposition " line" [: col "][ ]" filename
This option makes
.B xdvi
search in the
.I dvi
file for the place corresponding to the indicated line (and, optionally,
column) in the .tex source file, and highlight the place found by drawing a
rectangle in the
.I highlight
color (see the
.B \-hl
option) around the corresponding text.  In addition, when run with this
argument (and the
.B \-nofork
option is not given, which see),
.B xdvi
will always return immediately:  if it finds another instance of
.B xdvi
already showing
.I dvi_file,
then it will cause that instance to raise its window and move to the given
place in the
.I dvi
file; otherwise it will start up its own instance in the background.
If several instances of xdvi are displaying the respective
.I dvi
file, the instance which was last raised to the foreground will be used.
.sp
The space before
.I filename
is only needed if the filename starts
with a digit.  When the space is used, the argument
needs to be enclosed in quotes to prevent the shell from
misinterpreting the space as argument separator.
.sp
This option requires that
.I dvi_file
be prepared with source special information.  See the section on SOURCE SPECIALS
for details on how to do this.
.sp
Here is a more detailed description of how the filename in the
.I \-sourceposition
argument is matched with the filename in the source specials:
.RS 7
.TP 3
1.
If neither of the filenames contains a path name component, the filenames
are compared ignoring the
.RI ` .tex '
extensions in both filenames.
.TP
2.
Otherwise, if one of the filenames does contain a path component (e.g.:
.IR ./test.tex ,
.IR ../test.tex ,
.IR /my/homedir/tex/test.tex
or any combination of these), both filenames are expanded to a full path,
with any occurrences of
.I ../
and
.I ./
expanded, and multiple slashes removed.
.br
The pathname in the
.I \-sourceposition
is expanded relative to the current working directory of the
.I xdvi \-sourceposition
invocation, and the pathnames in the source specials are expanded
relative to the path of the current DVI file being viewed.
.br
The path names are then compared ignoring the
.RI ` .tex '
extensions in both path names.
.RE
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-statusline\fP
.RB ( .statusline )
This option is obsolete; use
\fB\-expertmode \fP \fIflag\fP
instead (which see).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-thorough
.RB ( .thorough )
.B Xdvi
will usually try to ensure that overstrike characters (e.g.,
.BR \enotin )
are printed correctly.  On monochrome displays, this is always possible
with one logical operation, either
.I and
or
.IR or .
On color displays, however, this may take two operations, one to set the
appropriate bits and one to clear other bits.  If this is the case, then
by default
.B xdvi
will instead use the
.I copy
operation, which does not handle overstriking correctly.  The
.B \-thorough
option chooses the slower but more correct choice.  See also
.BR \-copy .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-topmargin " dimen"
.RB ( .topMargin )
Specifies the top and bottom margins (see
.BR \-margins ).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-unique
.RB ( .unique )
This option will make another instance of xdvi running on the same display
act as a `server'.  For example, the invocation
.sp
.B xdvi -unique +5 file.dvi
.sp
will cause this other instance to load
.I file.dvi
on page 5 in place of the file that it is currently displaying. If there is
already another instance of xdvi already displaying the file
.IR file.dvi ,
then it will just jump to page 5.
If the other instance of xdvi is displaying a different file, it will load
.I file.dvi
instead. Otherwise, if no other instance of
xdvi is currently running on the display, this option instead
starts a new instance of xdvi in the background (unless the
.I \-nofork
option is specified, which see) displaying page 5 of
.IR file.dvi .
.br
The filename and the
.B +n
option for the page number are the only options available for
controlling a remote instance of xdvi like this; all other options are
currently ignored.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-useTeXpages
Use logical \*(Te\& pages (the values of the
.I \ecount0
register) instead of physical pages for the pagelist labels and
when jumping to a page in a document with the `g' keystroke (or the
.B goto-page()
action).
This option can be toggled via the
.RB ` T '
keystroke.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-version
Print information on the version of
.BR xdvi .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-visitedlinkcolor
.RB ( .visitedLinkColor )
Color used for visited hyperlinks (`Purple4' by default). Hyperlinks become
visited once you click on them. As for
.BR linkColor ,
the value should be either a valid X color name or a hexadecimal color string.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B \-warnspecials
.RB ( .warnSpecials )
Causes
.B xdvi
to print warnings about
.B \especial
strings that it cannot process to stderr. These warnings are suppressed by default.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-watchfile " n"
.RB ( .watchFile )
If this option is set to a value larger than 0, xdvi will check
the DVI file for changes every
.I n
seconds. If the DVI file has been completely written by TeX, it will
be reloaded automatically.  Fractional values (e.g. `2.5') are
possible. The default for this option is 0, i.e. no watching.
.br
Since xdvi cannot handle partial DVI files, it tries not to reload
the file while it is being rewritten.  However, use of the magnifier
or switching of pages requires reading (a part of) the DVI file, and
if the
.B tempfile
option is switched off, this will erase the current contents of the window
until the DVI file can be read entirely.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-wheelunit " pixels"
.RB ( .wheelUnit )
Sets the number of pixels that a motion of a wheel mouse will move the
image up, down, left, or right. (See the
.B wheel
and
.B hwheel
actions, below, for more information on this.)
If set to zero, the wheel mouse functionality is (essentially) disabled.
The default value is 80.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-xoffset " dimen"
.RB ( .xOffset )
Specifies the size of the horizontal offset of the output on the page.  See
.BR \-offsets .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BI \-yoffset " dimen"
.RB ( .yOffset )
Specifies the size of the vertical offset of the output on the page.  See
.BR -offsets .
.PP



.SH KEYSTROKES
.B Xdvi
recognizes the following keystrokes when typed in its window.
Each may optionally be preceded by a (positive or negative) number, a
`prefix argument', whose interpretation will depend on the particular keystroke.
This prefix argument can be discarded by pressing the ``Escape'' key.
If present, the ``Help'', ``Prior'' and ``Next'' keys are synonyms for
.RB ` ? ',
.RB ` b ',
and
.RB ` f '
keys, respectively.
.PP
The key bindings listed here are those that
.B xdvi
assigns by default.  The names appearing in brackets at the beginning
of the descriptions are the names of the actions associated with the
keys; these can be used to customize the key bindings, as explained in
more detail in the section
.B CUSTOMIZATION
below. If only a lowercase binding is listed, both upper- and lowercase
keys will work for that binding.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" SPECIAL KEYS
.\"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BR ESC " key"
.RB [ discard-number() ]
The escape key discards the numerical prefix for all actions
(useful when you mistyped a number).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BR Return " key"
.RB [ forward-page() ]
Moves to the next page (or to the
.IR n th
next page if a number is given).  Synonyms are
.RB ` n ',
.RB ` f '
and Line Feed.
.TP
.BR Backspace " key"
.RB [ back-pagee() ]
Moves to the previous page (or back
.I n
pages).  Synonyms are
.RB ` p ',
.RB ` b '
and
.BR Ctrl-h .
.TP
.BR Delete " key"
.RB [ up-or-previous() ]
Moves up two-thirds of a window-full, or to the top of the previous page
if already at the top of the page. With a float argument, moves up the
corresponding fraction of a window-full.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BR Space " key"
.RB [ unpause-or-next() ]
Moves down two-thirds of a window-full, or to the next page if already at
the bottom of the page.
.br
When the option
.BI \-pause " special-string"
is used and the display is currently paused, this key will instead
display the next portion of the page until the next
.I special-string
or the end of the page is encountered.  See the description of the
.B \-pause
option for details. The action
.RB [ down-or-next() ]
does a similar thing, but without pausing; it is not bound to a key
by default.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BR Ctrl-Home " (Xaw), " Ctrl-osfBeginLine " (Motif)"
.RB [ goto-page(1) ]
Moves to the first page of the document.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BR Ctrl-End " (Xaw), " Ctrl-osfEndLine " (Motif)"
.RB [ goto-page() ]
Moves to the last page of the document.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BR Home " (Xaw), " osfBeginLine " (Motif)"
.RB [ home-or-top() ]
Move to the ``home'' position of the page, or to the top of the page if
the
.I keep
flag is set (in this case, the page doesn't scroll horizontally).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BR End " (Xaw), " osfEndLine " (Motif)"
.RB [ end-or-bottom() ]
Move to the ``end'' position of the page (the lower right-hand corner),
or to the bottom of the page if the
.I keep
flag is set (in this case, the page doesn't scroll horizontally).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" ARROW KEYS
.\"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Down arrow
.RB [ down(0.015) ]
Scrolls page down.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Up arrow
.RB [ up(0.015) ]
Scrolls page up.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Right arrow
.RB [ right(0.015) ]
Scrolls page right.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Left arrow
.RB [ left(0.015) ]
Scrolls page left.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" ORDINARY KEYS. Note that the special symbols ([ ] + - etc.) are not in
.\" strict ASCII order (found that more intuitive). Sequence for each letter
.\" is: Alt-Ctrl, Ctrl, uppercase, lowercase.
.\"
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Alt-Ctrl-+
.RB [ change-density(25) ]
Increase the darkness of the fonts in the DVI window by adding to the gamma value
(see also the
.RB ` S '
keystroke).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Alt-Ctrl--
.RB [ change-density(-25) ]
Decrease the darkness of the fonts in the DVI window by subtracting from the gamma value
(see also the
.RB ` S '
keystroke).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-+
.RB [ set-shrink-factor(+) ]
Increase the shrink factor (see also the
.RB ` s '
keystroke).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl--
.RB [ set-shrink-factor(-) ]
Decrease the shrink factor (see also the
.RB ` s '
keystroke).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctr-[
.RB [ pagehistory-delete-backward() ]
Delete the current item in the page history and move to the history
item before the deleted one. With a prefix argument
.BR n ,
delete
.B n
previous history items. See
.B PAGE HISTORY
for details.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B [
.RB [ pagehistory-back() ]
Move back in the page history (see
.B PAGE HISTORY
for details). With a prefix argument
.BR n ,
move back
.B n
history items.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctr-]
.RB [ pagehistory-delete-forward() ]
Delete the current item in the page history and move to the history
item after the deleted one. With a prefix argument
.BR n ,
delete
.B n
next history items. See
.B PAGE HISTORY
for details.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B ]
.RB [ pagehistory-forward() ]
Move forward in the page history (see
.B PAGE HISTORY
for details). With a prefix argument
.BR n ,
move forward
.B n
history items.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.BR ^
.RB [ home() ]
Move to the ``home'' position of the page.  This is normally the upper
left-hand corner of the page, depending on the margins as described in the
.B \-margins
option, above.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B ?
.RB [ help() ]
Same as the
.B h
key (which see).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B B
.RB [ htex-back() ]
This key jumps back to the previous hyperlink anchor. See the
section
.B HYPERLINKS
for more information on navigating the links.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B b
.RB [ back-page() ]
Moves to the previous page (or back
.I n
pages).  Synonyms are
.RB ` p ',
.B Ctrl-h
and
.BR Backspace .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B C
.RB [ set-color() ]
This key toggles the use of color specials.  The key sequences
.RB ` 0C '
and
.RB ` 1C '
turn interpretation of color specials off and on, respectively.
See also the
.B \-nocolor
option.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B c
.RB [ center() ]
Moves the page so that the point currently beneath the mouse cursor is moved to
the middle of the window, and warps the mouse cursor to the same place.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B D
.RB [ toggle-grid-mode() ]
This key toggles the use of a grid on the displayed page.
If no number is given, the grid mode is switched on or off.
By prepending a number from 1 to 3, 3 different grid levels can be set.
The units of the grid are inches or centimeters, depending
on whether the paper format is letter (in) or a4 (cm).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B d
.RB [ down() ]
Moves page down two thirds of a window-full. With a float argument to ``down'',
moves down the corresponding fraction of a window-full.
.\"  Therefore, a more
.\" ``smooth'' scrolling using the ``Up'' and ``Down'' keys can be
.\" achieved by the the following setting:
.\" .sp
.\" xdvi.mainTranslations: #override\e
.\" .br
.\" <Key>Up:up(0.01)\en\e
.\" .br
.\" <Key>Down:down(0.01)\en
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-f
.RB [ find() ]
Pop up a window to search for a string in the DVI file. See the section
.BR "STRING SEARCH" ,
below, for more details.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B f
.RB [ forward-page() ]
Moves to the next page (or to the
.IR n th
next page if a number is given).  Synonyms are
.RB ` n ',
Return, and Line Feed.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B G
.RB [ set-greyscaling() ]
This key toggles the use of greyscale anti-aliasing for displaying shrunken
bitmaps.  In addition, the key sequences
.RB ` 0G '
and
.RB ` 1G '
clear and set this flag, respectively.  See also the
.B \-nogrey
option.
.sp
If given a numeric argument that is not 0 or 1, greyscale anti-aliasing is
turned on, and the gamma resource is set to the value divided by
100. E.g.,
.RB ` 150G '
turns on greyscale and sets gamma to 1.5.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-g
.RB [ find-next() ]
Find the next match string in the DVI file; this can be used instead
of pressing the `Find' button in the search window.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B g
.RB [ goto-page() ]
Moves to the page with the given number. If no page number is given, xdvi jumps to the last page.
.br
If the option/resource
.B useTeXpages
is active, the numbers correspond to the actual page numbers in the TeX file;
otherwise, absolute page numbers (starting from 1) are used. In the latter case,
the page numbers can be changed with the
.RB ` P '
keystroke, below.
Note that with the
.B useTeXpages
option it is possible that the same page number occurs multiple
times; in such a case, xdvi will use the first page number that matches.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B h
Pops up a help window with a short explanation of the most important key
bindings and concepts.
.\"
.\" Ummh, surely nobody will use the following ...
.\"
.\" For I18n purposes, the help texts and menu entries are configurable
.\" via the following X resources:
.\" .BR helpGeneral ,
.\" #ifhyper
.\" .BR helpHypertex ,
.\" #endif
.\" .BR helpOthercommands ,
.\" .BR helpMarking ,
.\" .BR helpPagemotion ,
.\" .BR helpMousebuttons ,
.\" .BR helpRulermode ,
.\" .BR helpSearch and
.\" .BR helpSourcespecials .
.\" The values of this resource should be a text string, the first line of
.\" which should contain two fields separated by `\en'. The first field is
.\" used as list entry for the list of help topics on the left of the help
.\" window, and the second field is used as the heading on the right-hand side.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B k
.RB [ set-keep-flag() ]
Normally when
.B xdvi
switches pages, it moves to the home position as well.  The
.RB ` k '
keystroke toggles a `keep-position' flag which, when set, will keep
the same position when moving between pages.  Also
.RB ` 0k '
and
.RB ` 1k '
clear and set this flag, respectively.  See also the
.B \-keep
option.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-l
.RB [ fullscreen(toggle) ]
Toggles fullscreen mode (see the description of the
.B \-fullscreen
option for more information on this). This is even more flaky than
using the command-line option: There is no universal standard
how a window could change its own geometry or window decorations at
run-time, so this will not work with most window managers or
desktops. Generally, it's better to use the window manager controls to
change the size or decorations of the xdvi window.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B l
.RB [ left() ]
Moves page left two thirds of a window-full.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B M
.RB [ set-margins() ]
Sets the margins so that the point currently under the mouse cursor defines
the upper left-hand corner of the text in the page.  Note that the command
does
.I not
move the image, but only determines the margins
for the page switching commands. For details on how the margins
are used, see the
.B \-margins
option.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B m
.RB [ toggle-mark() ]
Toggles the mark for the current page in the page list. When a page
is marked, it is displayed with a small star `*' next to the page number.
The marked pages can then be printed or saved to a file.
A page or several pages can also be marked by clicking or dragging
.B Mouse-2
in the page list.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-n
.RB [ toggle-mark()forward-page() ]
Toggles the mark for the current page in the page list, and moves to
the next page. This lets you quickly mark a series of subsequent pages.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B n
.RB [ forward-page() ]
Moves to the next page (or to the
.IR n th
next page if a number is given).  Synonyms are
.RB ` f ',
Return, and Line Feed.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-o
.RB [ select-dvi-file() ]
Read a new 
.I dvi
file. A file-selection widget is popped up for you to choose the DVI
file from. If a prefix argument
.I n
is given, the
.I n th
file from the file history is opened instead.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B P
.RB [ declare-page-number() ]
``This is page number
.IR n .''
This can be used to make the
.RB ` g '
keystroke refer to a different page number than the physical page.
(If you want to use `logical' or \*(Te\& page numbers instead of physical pages,
consider using the option
.B \-useTeXpages
instead.)
The argument
.I n
should be given as prefix to this key.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-p
.RB [ print() ]
Opens a popup window for printing the DVI file, or parts of it.
See the section
.B PRINT DIALOG
for an explanation of the options available, and the resources to customize
the default behaviour.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B p
.RB [ back-page() ]
Moves to the previous page (or back
.I n
pages).  Synonyms are
.RB ` b ',
.B Ctrl-h
and
.BR Backspace .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B q
.RB [ quit() ]
Quits the program.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-r
.RB [ forward-page(0) ]
Redisplays the current page.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B R
.RB [ reread-dvi-file() ]
Forces the
.I dvi
file to be reread.  This allows you to preview many versions of the same
file while running
.B xdvi
only once.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B r
.RB [ right() ]
Moves page right two thirds of a window-full.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-s
.RB [ save() ]
Opens a popup window for saving the DVI file, or parts of it. See the section
SAVE DIALOG below for more information on this.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B S
.RB [ set-density() ]
Sets the density factor to be used when shrinking bitmaps.  This should
be a number between 0 and 100; higher numbers produce lighter characters.
If greyscaling mode is in effect, this changes the value of gamma instead.
The new value of gamma is the given number divided by 100; negative values
are allowed.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B s
.RB [ set-shrink-factor() ]
Changes the shrink factor to the given number.  If no number is given, the
smallest factor that makes the entire page fit in the window will be used.
(Margins are ignored in this computation.)
.\" NOTE: following only works in action string, not interactively!!!
.\" Two special values are
.\" .B +
.\" and
.\" .B -
.\" which zoom in and out respectively, by decrementing/incrementing the
.\" shrinkfactor by one step.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B T
.RB [ use-tex-pages() ]
Use logical \*(Te\& pages (the values of the
.I \ecount0
register) instead of physical pages for the pagelist labels and
when jumping to a page in a document via
.BR goto-page() .
See also the
.B \-useTeXpages
option.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B t
.RB [ switch-magnifier-units() ]
Switches the units used for the magnifier tick marks, and for reporting
the distance between the mouse pointer and the ruler centre in
ruler mode (see the section
.BR MODES ).
The default value is specified by the X resource
.B tickUnits
(`mm' by default). The units toggle through the following
values; except for `px', they all correspond to \*(Te\&'s units:
.I mm
(millimeters)
.I pt
(\*(Te\& points),
.I in
(inches),
.I sp
(scaled points, the unit used internally by \*(Te\&)
.I bp
(big points or `PostScript points'),
.I cc
(cicero points),
.I dd
(didot points),
.I pc
(pica), and
.I px
(screen pixels).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-u
.RB [ back-page()toggle-mark() ]
Moves to the previous page, and toggles the mark for that page. This
is the dual action to
.BR Ctrl-n .
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B u
.RB [ up() ]
Moves page up two thirds of a window-full. With a float argument to ``up'',
moves up the corresponding fraction of a window-full.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-v
.RB [ show-source-specials() ]
Show bounding boxes for every source special on the current page, and print
the strings contained in these specials to stderr. With prefix 1,
show every bounding box on the page. This is for debugging purposes mainly.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B V
.RB [ set-gs-alpha() ]
This key toggles the anti-aliasing of PostScript<tm> specials when
.B Ghostscript
is used as renderer.  In addition the key sequences
.RB ` 0V '
and
.RB ` 1V '
clear and set this flag, respectively.  See also the
.B \-gsalpha
option.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B v
.RB [ set-ps() ]
This key toggles the rendering of PostScript<tm> specials between 3 states:
.RS 7
.TP 0
.SB - specials (like EPS graphics) are displayed;
.TP
.SB - specials are displayed along with their bounding box (if available);
.TP
.SB - only the bounding box is displayed.
.PP
.sp
The states can also be selected directly by using
.RB ` 1v ',
.RB ` 2v '
and
.RB ` 0v '
respectively.
See also the
.B \-postscript
option.
.RE
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Ctrl-x
.RB [ source-what-special() ]
Display information about the source special next to the mouse cursor in the
statusline. This is the same special that would be found by
.IR source-special() ,
but without invoking the editor. For debugging purposes.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B x
.RB [ set-expert-mode() ]
Toggles expert mode, in which
the statusline, the scrollbars, the menu buttons, the toolbar (Motif only)
and the page list are not shown.
Typing
.RB ` 1x '
toggles the display of the statusline at the bottom of
the window. Typing
.RB ` 2x '
toggles the scrollbars (if available). For Xaw,
.RB ` 3x '
toggles the menu buttons and the page list, for Motif,
it toggles the page list. In Motif, the additional bindings
.RB ` 4x '
toggle the toolbar, and
.RB ` 5x '
the menu bar.
.br
Without a prefix argument, all of the mentioned GUI elements are either
switched on (if they had been invisible before) or off.
.br
Toggling the scrollbars may behave erratically with the
Xaw widgets; e.g. the scrollbars may reappear after
resizing the window, and at certain window sizes one of the
scrollbars may fail to disappear.
.br
See also the option
.B \-expertmode
(the numbers above correspond to the bits in the argument to
.BR \-expertmode ).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH MOUSE ACTIONS IN THE MAIN WINDOW
The mouse actions can be customized by setting the X resource
.BR mouseTranslations .
Since there are three different mouse modes (see the section
.B MODES
below), there is a special action
.B mouse-modes
which lists the actions for each of the three modes:
\fBmouse-modes("ACTIONS-FOR-MODE1", "ACTIONS-FOR-MODE2", "ACTIONS-FOR-MODE3")\fR.
If only one argument is specified, this action is used for all modes.
The default bindings are as follows:
.RS 5
.nf
.ft 3
.sp 1n
xdvi.mouseTranslations: \e
Shift<Btn1Down>:mouse-modes("drag(+)")\en\e
Shift<Btn2Down>:mouse-modes("drag(|)")\en\e
Shift<Btn3Down>:mouse-modes("drag(-)")\en\e
Ctrl<Btn1Down>:mouse-modes("source-special()")\en\e
<Btn1Down>: mouse-modes("do-href()magnifier(*2)", "text-selection()", "ruler()")\en\e
<Btn2Down>: mouse-modes("do-href-newwindow()magnifier(*2)", "text-selection()", "ruler()")\en\e
<Btn3Down>: mouse-modes("magnifier(*3)")\en\e
<Btn4Down>: mouse-modes("wheel(-0.2)")\en\e
<Btn5Down>: mouse-modes("wheel(0.2)")\en\e
<Btn6Down>: mouse-modes("hwheel(-0.2)")\en\e
<Btn7Down>: mouse-modes("hwheel(0.2)")\en\e
.sp 1n
.ft
.fi
.RE
All of these actions are described in more detail below.
Note the use of quote symbols around the action strings, which are necessary
to group them into one argument.
Buttons 4, 5, 6, and 7 refer to wheel movements (wheel up/down/left/right)
on wheel mice.  Not all mice support horizontal scrolling.
.PP
The X Toolkit routines that implement translations do not support event
types of
.B Btn6Down
or
.BR Btn7Down .
Because of this,
.B xdvi
implements its own parser for translations given in
.BR mouseTranslations .
This parser is more limited than the parser built in to the X Toolkit.
The string given in
.B mouseTranslations
should not begin with
.RB `` #replace '',
.RB `` #augment '',
or
.RB `` #override ''.
Modifiers of the form
.BI @ keysym
are not supported, and the event type must be of the form
.B BtnDown
or
.BI Btn n Down\fR,\fP
where
.I n
is a positive integer without leading zeroes.  Also, some limitations apply
to the action field.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B do-href()
.TP
.B do-href-newwindow()
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
Usually, if a binding specifies more then one action, all actions
are executed in a sequence. The hyperlink bindings
.B do-href()
and
.B do-href-newwindow()
are special in that they are used as an
.I alternative
to other actions that might follow them
.I if
the mouse is currently located on a hyperlink.
In this case, none of the other actions will be executed;
otherwise, only the other actions are executed.
.br
The action
.B do-href()
jumps to the link target in the current xdvi
window (eventually switching to another page), and
.B do-href-newwindow()
opens a new instance of xdvi for the link target.
In both cases, the location of the target is
indicated by a small arrow drawn in the same color
as a visited link
in the left corner of the window.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B magnifier(n x m)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B magnifier(*n)
This action will pop up a ``magnifying glass'' which shows the unshrunk
image of the region around the mouse pointer.  The magnifier disappears when
the mouse button is released. Moving the mouse cursor while holding the button down will move the
magnifier.
.br
Different mouse buttons produce different sized
windows, as indicated by the
the argument of the
.I magnifier()
action. Its argument is either a string of the form
.IR width x height ,
as in the
.BI \-mgs n
command-line option, or one of the strings
.B *1
through
.BR *5 ,
referring to the value specified by the corresponding
.BI \-mgs n
option.
.\" Note that in order to assign magnifier actions to
.\" the buttons 4 or 5, you need to use the resource
.\" .B wheelTranslations
.\" (more about this resource below), e.g.:
.\" .sp
.\" xdvi.wheelTranslations: <Btn4Down>: magnifier(*4)\en\e
.\"     <Btn5Down>:	magnifier(*5)\en
.\" .sp
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B drag(+)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B drag(|)
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B drag(-)
Drags the page with the mouse. This action should have one parameter, the character
.RB `` | '',
.RB `` - '',
or
.RB `` + '',
indicating vertical dragging only, horizontal dragging only, or dragging in all
directions.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B source-special()
This action starts a ``reverse search'',
opening the editor at the location in the \*(Te\& file corresponding
to the pointer location in the DVI file.
See the section on SOURCE SPECIALS, below, for more information on this.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B wheel()
This action can be used to scroll the image with a wheel mouse, where it
is usually bound to mouse button 4 (wheel up) or 5 (wheel down).
The action takes one parameter, giving the distance to scroll the
image.  If the parameter contains a decimal point, the distance is
given in wheel units; otherwise, pixels.  A negative value scrolls up,
a positive value scrolls down.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B hwheel()
This action can be used to scroll the image horizontally with a wheel mouse,
where it is usually bound to mouse button 6 (wheel left) or 7 (wheel right).
The action takes one parameter, giving the distance to scroll the
image.  If the parameter contains a decimal point, the distance is
given in wheel units; otherwise, pixels.  A negative value scrolls left,
a positive value scrolls right.  Not all mice support horizontal scrolling;
this is mostly for touchpads, trackpads, etc.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B text-selection()
This action allows you to mark a rectangular region of text in the DVI file.
The text is put into the X selection buffer and can be pasted into other
applictions (e.g. text editors). This works similar to the Plain text option
in the
.B Save
dialog; see the discussion there for more information on encoding issues.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B ruler()
This action creates a cross-shaped ruler. Moving the mouse and holding
the button down drags the ruler and lets you measure distances on the page.
See the section
.B Ruler Mode
for more information on this.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH UNBOUND ACTIONS
The following actions are not bound to a key by default, but are available
for customization.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B quit-confirm()
Pops up a confirmation window to quit xdvi. To bind it to the
.RB ` q '
key instead of the default `quit()' action, put the following into your
.I ~/.Xdefaults
file:
.sp
xdvi.mainTranslations: #override\e
.br
<Key>q: quit-confirm()\en
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B down-or-next()
Similar to
.IR unpause-or-next() :
Moves down two-thirds of a window-full, or to the next page if already
at the bottom of the page.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B shrink-to-dpi()
This action takes one (required) argument.  It sets the shrink factor to
an integer so as to approximate the use of fonts with the corresponding
number of dots per inch.  If
.B xdvi
is using fonts scaled for
.I p
dots per inch, and the argument to
.B shrink-to-dpi
is
.IR n ,
then the corresponding shrink factor is the ratio
.IR p / n ,
rounded to the nearest integer.
.PP
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH CUSTOMIZATION
Key and mouse button assignments can be changed by setting the
.B mainTranslations
resource to a string of translations as defined in the documentation for the
X toolkit.  The actions should take the form of action names listed in the
KEYSTROKES and MOUSE ACTIONS sections.
.PP
An exception to this are the Motif keys
.IR osfPageUp " (" PgUp ),
.IR osfPageDown " (" PgDown ),
.IR osfBeginLine " (" Home )
and
.IR osfEndLine " (" End )
which are currently not customizable in the Motif version.
.PP
Key actions will usually be without arguments; if they are passed an argument,
it represents the optional number or `prefix argument' typed prior to the action.
.PP
Some key actions may take special arguments, as follows: The argument of
.B goto-page
may be the letter
.RB ` e ',
indicating the action of going to the end of the document.
The argument of
.B set-shrink-factor
may be the letter
.RB ` a ',
indicating that the shrink factor should be set to the smallest value such that
the page will fit in the window, or one of the signs
.RB ` + '
or
.RB ` - ',
indicating that the shrink factor should be increased or decreased, respectively.
Finally, actions that would perform a toggle, such as
.BR set-keep-flag ,
may receive an argument
.RB ` t ',
indicating that the action should toggle regardless of the current prefix argument.
.PP
Mouse actions should refer only to
.B ButtonPress
events (e.g.,
.BR "<Btn1Down>:magnifier(*1)" ).
The corresponding motion and release events will be handled internally.
A key action may be bound to a mouse event, but not vice versa.
.PP
Usually the string of translations should begin with
.RB `` #override '',
indicating that the default key and mouse button assignments should not
be discarded.
.PP
When keys or mouse buttons involving modifiers (such as Ctrl or Shift)
are customized together with their non-modified equivalents, the modified
keys should come first, for example:
.RS 5
.nf
.ft 3
.sp 1n
xdvi.mainTranslations: #override \e
Shift<Key>s: select-dvi-file()\en\e
Ctrl<Key>s: save()\en\e
<Key>s: find()\en
.sp 1n
.ft
.fi
.RE
.PP
Because
.B xdvi
needs to capture pointer motion events, and because the X Toolkit
translations mechanism cannot accommodate both motion events and double-click
events at the same time, it is not possible to specify double-click
actions in
.B xdvi
customizations.  For information on this and other aspects of translations,
see the X Toolkit Intrinsics documentation.
.PP
There is no command-line option to set the
.B mainTranslations
resource, since changing this resource on the command line would be cumbersome.
To set the resource for testing purposes, use the
.B -xrm
command-line option provided by the X toolkit.  For example,
\fBxdvi \-xrm 'XDvi.mainTranslations: #override "z":quit()' ...\fR
or
.B "xdvi \-xrm 'XDvi.mainTranslations: #override <Key>z:quit()' ..."
will cause the key
.RB ` z '
to quit
.BR xdvi .
.PP
Some resources are provided to allow customization of the geometry of
the Xaw command buttons.  Again, they are not changeable via command-line
options, other than via the
.B \-xrm
option.  All of these resources take integer values.
.TP
.B buttonSideSpacing
The number of pixels to be placed on either side of the buttons.
The default value is 6.
.TP
.B buttonTopSpacing
The number of pixels between the top button and the top of the window.
The default value is 50.
.TP
.B buttonBetweenSpacing
The number of pixels between the buttons.
The default value is 20.
.TP
.B buttonBetweenExtra
The number of pixels of additional space to be inserted if the
.B buttonTranslations
resource string contains an extra newline character.
The default value is 50.
.TP
.B buttonBorderWidth
The border width of the button windows.  The default value is 1.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH PAGE LIST
The scrollable page list on the right of the main window allows you to
jump directly to a page in the DVI file.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Mouse-1
Jumps to the page the mouse is located on.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B Mouse-2
.RB [ toggle-mark() ]
Toggle the mark of the current page. The marks are used by the `Print'
and `Save to file' dialogs to select only marked pages from the DVI file.
.PP
When the mouse pointer is inside the page list, the mouse wheel switches
to the next or previous page.
.PP
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SCROLLBARS
The scrollbars (if present) behave in the standard way:  pushing Button 2
in a scrollbar moves the top or left edge of the scrollbar to that point
and optionally drags it;
pushing Button 1 moves the image up or right by an amount equal to the distance
from the button press to the upper left-hand corner of the window; pushing
Button 3 moves the image down or left by the same amount.
.PP
The scrollbars can be removed via the
.I -expertmode
flag/keystroke (which see).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH MAGNIFIER
By default, the mouse buttons 1 to 5 will pop up a ``magnifying glass''
that shows an unshrunken image of the page (i.e. an image at the resolution
determined by the option/X resource
.B pixels
or
.BR mfmode )
at varying sizes. When the magnifier is moved, small ruler-like
tick marks are displayed at the edges of the magnifier (unless
the X resource
.B delayRulers
is set to false, in which case the tick marks will always be displayed).
The unit of the marks is determined by the X resource
.B tickUnits
(mm by default). This unit can be changed at runtime via the action
.BR switch-magnifier-units() ,
by default bound to the keystroke
.RB ` t '
(see the description of that key, and of switch-magnifier-units() for
more details on the units available).
.br
The length of the tick marks can be changed via the X resource
.B tickLength
(4 by default). A zero or negative value suppresses the tick marks.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH PAGE HISTORY
.B Xdvi
keeps a history of viewed pages, and you can move through the history
and delete items using the keys
.B [
.RI ( pagehistory-back() ),
.B ]
.RI ( pagehistory-forward() ),
.B Ctr-[
.RI ( pagehistory-delete-backward() )
and
.B Ctr-]
.RI ( pagehistory-delete-forward() ).
.PP
When one of the history commands is used, the page history is displayed
in the status line at the bottom of the window, with the current list
item marked by square brackets `[', `]' and a left and right context of
at most 10 items. File boundaries are marked by `#'.
.PP
The size of the history can be customized with the X resource
.B pageHistorySize
(the default size is 1000 items). If the size is set to 0, the
history commands are disabled.
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH HYPERLINKS
The actions
.B do-href()
and
.B do-href-newwindow()
(by default bound to Mouse-1 and Mouse-2 if the pointer is currently located
on a hyperlink) can be used to open the link target in the same window
.RB ( do-href() )
or in a new window
.RB ( do-href-newwindow() ).
.PP
If the link target is not a file on the local disk,
xdvi tries to launch a web browser (as specified by the
.B -browser
command line option, the
.B BROWSER
environment variable or the
.B wwwBrowser
X resource, in this order) to retrieve the document. See the description
of the
.B BROWSER
environment variable, below, for an example setting.
.PP
If the file is a local file, xdvi tries to determine if it is a DVI
file. If it is, xdvi will try to display the file; otherwise it will
try to determine the MIME type of the file, and from that an
application suitable for opening the file.
This is done by parsing the files specified by the environment variable
.B EXTENSIONMAPS
for a mapping of filename extensions to MIME types,
and the files determined by the environment variable
.B MAILCAPS
for a mapping of MIME types to application programs.
See the descriptions of these variables in the section
.BR ENVIRONMENT ,
below, for a more detailed description and the default values of these
variables. If no suitable files are found, a set of built-in default
MIME types and applications is used.
.PP
.B Xdvi
currently uses no heuristics apart from the filename suffix
to determine the mime type of a file. If a filename has no suffix,
the value of the resource
.B noMimeSuffix
is used (by default
.IR application/x-unknown ).
If the suffix doesn't match any of the suffixes in
.BR mime.types ,
the value of the resource
.B unknownMimeSuffix
is used (by default
.IR application/x-unknown ).
If the
.B mailcap
entries do not list a viewer for a given mime type, xdvi will show
a warning popup. If you want to avoid this warning, and for example
want to always use the netscape browser for unknown MIME types,
you could add the following line to your ~/.mailcap file:
.RS 4
.nf
.ft 3
.sp 1n
application/xdvi-unknown; \e
    netscape -raise -remote 'openURL(%s,new-window)'
.sp 1n
.ft
.fi
.RE
.\" As an example, consider the following settings, which are the default
.\" settings for buttons 1 and 2:
.\" .RS 5
.\" .nf
.\" .ft 3
.\" .sp 1n
.\" xdvi.mainTranslations: #override \e
.\" <Btn1Down>: do-href()magnifier(*1)\en\e
.\" <Btn2Down>: do-href-newwindow()magnifier(*2)\en\e
.\" <Btn3Down>: magnifier(*3)\en
.\" .sp 1n
.\" .ft
.\" .fi
.\" .RE
.\" .PP
.\" If a link points to a file which is not a DVI file (e.g. HTML, or
.\" PostScript), the files
.\" .B mime.types
.\" and
.\" .B mailcap
.\" are parsed to determine a suitable viewer; if no suitable
.\" .B mailcap
.\" entry was found, if the
.\" .SB WWWBROWSER
.\" environment variable is set, or
.\" .B \-browser
.\" was specified on the command line, the browser is launched to load the file.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH STRING SEARCH
The keystroke
.I Ctrl-f
or the menu entry
.I File > Find ...
(or the `Binoculars' symbol in the toolbar, for Motif)
opens a dialog window to search for a text string or
a regular expression in the DVI file.
The keystroke
.I Ctrl-g
jumps to the next match (like pressing the `Find' button in the search window).
.PP
By default, the matches are highlighted in inverted color.
If the display isn't running in TrueColor, or if the X resource
.B matchHighlightInverted
is set to false or the command-line option
.B \-nomatchinverted
is used, xdvi will instead draw a rectangle in
.I highlight
color (see the
.B \-hl
option) around the match.
.PP
If a match crosses a page boundary, only the part on the
first page is highlighted.
.B Xdvi
will scan up to 2 adjacent pages to match strings crossing page
boundaries; but note that header or footer
lines, or intervening float pages will be treated as parts of the
scanned text. Such text will usually cause multi-page matching to fail.
.PP
This emphasizes the fact that searching in the
formatted text (the DVI output) works differently from
searching in the source text: Searching in the DVI file makes it easier to
skip formatting instructions, and makes it possible to search for e.g.
hyphenation and equation numbers; but sometimes the
formatting results can also get in the way, e.g. in the case of
footnotes. In these cases it's better to search in the \*(Te\& source
instead. The use of
.I source specials
will make switching between the
xdvi display and the editor with the \*(Te\& source easier; see the
section
.B SOURCE SPECIALS
below for more information on this.
.PP
The text extracted from the DVI file is in encoded in UTF-8
(you can view that text by saving the file in UTF-8 format via the
.I File > Save as ...
menu item).
If xdvi has been compiled with locale,
.I nl_langinfo()
and
.I iconv
support, the search term is converted from the character set
specified by the current locale into UTF-8. (See the output of
.B locale -a
for a list of locale settings available on your system).
If
.I nl_langinfo()
is not available, but
.I iconv
is, you can specify the input encoding for
.I iconv
via the X resource
.I textEncoding
(see the output of
.B iconv -l
for a list of valid encodings). If
.I iconv
support is not available, only the encodings
.I ISO-8859-1
and
.I UTF-8
are supported (these names are case-insensitive).
.PP
Ideographic characters from CJKV fonts are treated specially: All white space
(spaces and newlines) before and after such characters is ignored in
the search string and in the DVI file.
.PP
To match a newline character, use \fI\en\fR in the search string;
to match the string \fI\en\fR, use \fI\e\en\fR.
.PP
If the checkbox
.I Regular Expression
is activated, the string is treated as a regular expression in
extended POSIX syntax, with the following properties:
.RS 2
.TP 2
-
\fIa?\fR matches \fIa\fR zero or one times.
.TP
-
\fIa*\fR matches \fIa\fR zero or more times.
.TP
-
\fIa+\fR matches \fIa\fR one or more times.
Note that \fI*\fR and \fI+\fR are greedy, i.e. they match the longest possible substring.
.TP
-
The pattern \fI.\fR matches any character except for newline. To also match a newline, use `\fI(.|\en)\fR'.
.TP
-
\fIa{n}\fR matches \fIa\fR exactly n times.
.TP
-
\fIa{n,m}\fR matches \fIa\fR at least n and no more than m times.
.TP
-
\fIa|b\fR matches \fIa\fR or \fIb\fR. Brackets can be used
for grouping, e.g.: \fI(a|b)|c\fR.
.TP
-
The string matched by the nth group can be referenced by \fI\en\fR, e.g. \fI\e1\fR refers to the
first match.
.TP
-
The characters \fI^\fR and \fI$\fR match the beginning and the end of a line, respectively.
.TP
-
\fI[abc]\fR matches any of the letters a, b, c, and \fI[a-z]\fR matches all characters from a to z.
.TP
-
Each item in a regular expression can also be one of the following POSIX
character classes:
.br
.nf
.I [[:alnum:]] [[:alpha:]] [[:blank:]] [[:cntrl:]] [[:digit:]]
.I [[:graph:]] [[:lower:]] [[:print:]] [[:space:]] [[:upper:]]
.fi


These can be negated by inserting a \fI^\fR symbol after the first bracket:
.I [^[:alpha:]]

For more details on POSIX regular expressions, see e.g. the
.B IEEE Std 1003.1
standard definition available online from:

.nf
http://www.opengroup.org/onlinepubs/007904975/basedefs/xbd_chap09.html
.fi
.TP
-
As a non-standard extension, the following Perl-like abbreviations
can be used instead of the POSIX classes:
.nf
.sp 1n
.ta 1L +8L +30L
Symbol	Meaning	POSIX Class

    \fI\ew\fR	an alphanumeric character	\fI[[:alnum:]]\fR
    \fI\eW\fR	a non-alphanumeric character	\fI[^[:alnum:]]\fR
    \fI\ed\fR	a digit character	\fI[[:digit:]]\fR
    \fI\eD\fR	a non-digit character	\fI[^[:digit:]]\fR
    \fI\es\fR	a whitespace character	\fI[[:space:]]\fR
    \fI\eS\fR	a non-whitespace character	\fI[^[:space:]]\fR
.sp 1n
.fi
.TP
-
The following characters are special symbols; they need to be escaped
with \fI\e\fR in order to match them literally: \fI ( ) [ ] . * ? + ^ $ \e\fR.
.TP
-
Matches of length zero are silently skipped.
.RE
.PP
The dialog also provides checkboxes to:
.RS 2
.TP 2
-
search backwards;
.TP
-
match in a case-sensitive manner (the default is to ignore case, i.e. a search
string
.I Test
will match both the strings
.I test
and
.I TEST
in the DVI file);
.TP
-
ignore line breaks and hyphens: This removes all hyphens at the ends
of lines and the following newline characters, and replaces all
remaining newline characters by white spaces. So hyphenated words will
appear as one word to the search, and a search for two words with a space
in between will also match the words if they are separated by a linebreak.
.br
Note that the hyphen removal may cause unwanted side effects for compound words
containing hyphens that are wrapped after the hyphen, and that replacing the
newlines affects the interpretation of regular expressions as follows:
The \fI.\fR pattern will also match newlines, and \fI^\fR and \fI$\fR won't match
begin and end of lines any more. (Since currently there is no option for turning
off the greediness of \fI*\fR and \fI+\fR, turning on this option will usually
result in matches that are longer than desired.)
.RE
.PP
The current checkbox settings are saved in the
.I ~/.xdvirc
file.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH PRINT DIALOG
The print dialog window allows you to print all pages, marked pages
(click or drag Mouse-2 in the page list to mark them), or a range
of pages. Note that the page numbers always refer to physical pages,
so if you're using the option `use TeX pages', you may want to disable
it to make it easier to determine the correct page numbers (or avoid this
problem altogether by marking the pages to be printed).
.PP
The value of the
.B Printer
text filed is passed to
.B dvips
via the
.B -o!
mechanism, as a single argument after the `!'. Any arguments
listed in the
.B Dvips options
field are segmented at whitespaces and passed as separate arguments to dvips.
If you e.g. want to print the file 2-up, you should enter
the following string into the
.B Printer
field:
.RS 5
.nf
.sp 1n
    \fIpsnup -2 -q | lpr -Plp\fP
.sp 1n
.fi
.RE
.PP
There are several resources for customizing the behaviour and the default entries
of the print dialog:
.TP
.B dvipsPrinterString
.TP
.B dvipsOptionsString
These can be used to provide default entries for the 
.B Printer
and the
.B Dvips options
text fields, respectively. If no paper size is specified in the DVI file
(via e.g. \eusepackage[dvips]{geometry} - this is the preferred method),
the input field is initialized with the current value of the
command line option/X resource
.BR paper .
E.g., the option
.I -paper a4r
is translated into the dvips options
.IR "-t a4 -t landscape" .
Note that no check is performed whether dvips actually understands these
options (it will ignore them if it can't); currently not all options
used by xdvi are also covered by dvips.
.TP
.B dvipsHangTime
.TP
.B dvipsFailHangTime
These specify the time (in milliseconds) that the printing progress window will
stay open after the
.B dvips
process has terminated. The value of
.BR dvipsHangTime
is used if the process terminates successfully;
.B dvipsFailHangTime
is used if it terminates with an error. The default values are 1.5 and 5 seconds, respectively.
If both values are negative, the window will stay open until it is closed by the user.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SAVE DIALOG
This dialog allows you to save all or selected/marked pages in the current
DVI file. You can save in one of the following formats:
.RS 2
.TP 2
-
PostScript (uses
.B dvips
to convert the DVI file to a PostScript file, just like when printing
to a PostScript file).
.TP
-
PDF (first uses
.B dvips
to convert the DVI file to a PostScript file, then uses
.B ps2pdf
to convert the PostScript file to PDF).
.TP
-
Plain text in ISO-8859-1 or UTF-8 encoding. The latter will preserve more
of the special LaTeX characters e.g. from mathematical mode. Note however
that e.g. only few of LaTeX's mathematical symbols can be rendered correctly
as text; so this funcionality works best for plain text documents.
If a character cannot be displayed in the selected
charset, it is replaced by `\e' followed by the hexadecimal character code.
If a character is not recognized at all, it is replaced by `?'.
.RE
.PP
The programs for PostScript and PDF conversion can be customized via
the command line options or X resources
.BR -dvipspath / .dvipsPath
and
.BR -ps2pdfpath / .ps2pdfPath ,
respectively; see the explanation of these options above for more details.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH MODES
The keystroke
.B Ctrl-m
[\fBswitch-mode()\fR]
switches between three different mouse bindings,
which can also be activated via the
.B Modes
menu (in Motif, this is a submenu of the
.B Options
menu called
.BR "Mouse Mode" ).
The default mode at startup can be customized via the X resource
.B mouseMode
or the command-line option
.BR \-mousemode .
The default startup mode is Magnifier Mode.
.PP
.B Note:
The modes are implemented by changing the
.I magnifier()
action. Switching the mode will not work if
.B Mouse-1
has been customized to an action sequence that does
not contain the magnifier() action.
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B "Magnifier Mode"
In this mode, the mouse buttons 1 to 5 pop up a ``magnifying glass''
that shows an unshrunken image of the page (i.e. an image at the resolution
determined by the option/X resource
.B pixels
or
.BR mfmode )
at varying sizes. When the magnifier is moved, small ruler-like
tick marks are displayed at the edges of the magnifier (unless
the X resource
.B delayRulers
is set to false, in which case the tick marks are always displayed).
The unit of the marks is determined by the X resource
.B tickUnits
(mm by default). This unit can be changed at runtime via the action
.BR switch-magnifier-units() ,
by default bound to the keystroke
.RB ` t '
(see the description of that key, and of switch-magnifier-units() for
more details on the units available).
.br
The length of the tick marks can be changed via the X resource
.B tickLength
(4 by default). A zero or negative value suppresses the tick marks.
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B "Text Selection Mode"
This mode allows you to select a rectangular region of text in the DVI
file by holding down
.B Mouse-1
and moving the mouse. The text is put into
the X primary selection so that it can be pasted into other X applications
with
.B Mouse-2
as usual.
.br
If xdvi has been compiled with locale,
.I nl_langinfo()
and
.I iconv
support, the selected text is converted into the character set of the
current locale (see the output of
.B locale -a
for a list of locale settings available on your system).
If
.I nl_langinfo()
is not available, but
.I iconv
is, you can specify the input encoding for
.I iconv
via the X resource
.I textEncoding
(see the output of
.B iconv -l
for a list of valid encodings). If
.I iconv
support is not available, only the encodings
.I ISO-8859-1
and
.I UTF-8
are supported (these names are case-insensitive).
.br
Note that UTF-8 is
the only encoding that can render all characters (e.g. mathematical
symbols) of a DVI file. If ISO-8859-1 is active, characters that cannot be displayed
are replaced by `\e' followed by the hexadecimal character code.
For other encodings, such characters may trigger iconv error messages.
If a character is not recognized at all, it is replaced by `?'.
.br
To extract larger portions of text, you can alternatively
save selected pages or the entire file in text format via the
.B File > Save as ...
menu.
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.B "Ruler Mode"
This mode provides a simple way of measuring distances on the page.
.br
When this mode is activated, the mouse cursor changes into a
thin cross, and a larger, cross-shaped ruler is drawn in the
highlight color at the mouse location. The ruler doesn't have
units attached to it; instead, the current distance between the
ruler and the mouse cursor is continuously printed to the
statusline.
.br
When activating Ruler Mode, the ruler is at first attached to
the mouse and can be moved around. It can then be positioned at
a fixed place by clicking
.BR Mouse-1 .
After that, the mouse cursor
can be moved to measure the horizontal
.RI ( dx ),
vertical
.RI ( dy )
and direct (shortest)
.RI ( dr )
distance between the ruler center point and the mouse.
.br
Clicking
.B Mouse-1
again will move the ruler to the current mouse
position, and holding down
.B Mouse-1
will drag the ruler around.
.br
In Ruler Mode, the following special keybindings extend or
replace the default bindings:
.RS 7
.TP 7
.B o
.RB [ ruler-snap-origin() ]
Snap the ruler back to the origin coordinate (0,0).
.TP
.B t
\fR[overrides \fBswitch-magnifier-units()\fP]
Toggle between various ruler units, which can be specified by the X
resource
.B tickUnits
(`mm' by default).
.TP
.B P
\fR[overrides \fBdeclare-page-number()\fP]
Print the distances shown in the statusline to standard output.
.RE
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH TOOLBAR (Motif only)
The Motif toolbar can also be customized. The XPM file used for the
toolbar icons can be specified via the resource
.BR toolbarPixmapFile ,
which should contain a filename that can be found in one of
.B XFILESEARCHPATH
or
.B XDVIINPUTS
(see the section
.B FILE SEARCHING
below for more information on these variables).
.B Xdvi
will try to split this pixmap horizontally into
.I n
pieces, where each piece is as wide as the pixmap is high
and is treated as an image for toolbar button
.IR n .
This means that each icon should be a square, and that the entire
pixmap should have width
\fIn\fR x \fIh\fR if \fIh\fR is the height of the pixmap.
.PP
The resource 
.B toolbarTranslations
can be used to map icons/buttons to specific actions.
The resource should contain a string separated by newline characters,
similar to the resources
.B mainTranslations
and
.BR menuTranslations .
Every line must contain either a spacer definition, or an icon definition:
.PP
A spacer definition is a string \fBSPACER(\fIn\fB)\fR,
where
.I n
is the number of pixels inserted as separator to the following button.
.PP
An icon definition is a colon-separated list containing the following elements:
.RS 2
.TP 2
.SB - the index of an icon in the pixmap file (starting from zero);
.TP
.SB - a long tooltip string, displayed in the status area;
.TP
.SB - a short tooltip string, displayed as popup;
.TP
.SB - a sequence of actions to be performed when the corresponding toolbar button is pushed.
.RE
.PP
To illustrate this, the default value of
.B toolbarTranslations
looks as follows:
.RS 5
.nf
.ft 3
.sp 1n
xdvi.toolbarTranslations: \e
   SPACER(5)\en\e
   0:Open a new document   (Key\e\e: Ctrl-f):\e
        Open file:select-dvi-file()\en\e
   SPACER(10)\en\e
   1:Reread this document   (Key\e\e: R):\e
        Reread file:reread-dvi-file()\en\e
   SPACER(10)\en\e
   2:Go to the first page of this document   (Key\e\e: 1g):\e
        Go to first page:goto-page(1)\en\e
   3:Go to the previous page of this document   (Key\e\e: p):\e
        Go to previous page:back-page(1)\en\e
   4:Go to the next page of this document   (Key\e\e: n):\e
        Go to next page:forward-page(1)\en\e
   5:Go to the last page of this document   (Key\e\e: g):\e
        Go to last page:goto-page()\en\e
   SPACER(10)\en\e
   6:Enlarge the display   (Key\e\e: Ctrl-+):Zoom in:\e
        set-shrink-factor(+)\en\e
   7:Shrink the display   (Key\e\e: Ctrl--):Zoom out:\e
        set-shrink-factor(-)\en\e
   SPACER(10)\en\e
   8:Jump back to the previous hyperlink   (Key\e\e: B):\e
        Back hyperlink:htex-back()\en\e
   SPACER(10)\en\e
   10:Print this document:Print:print()\en\e
   SPACER(10)\en\e
   11:Toggle marks for odd pages   (Key\e\e: 1m):\e
        Toggle odd:toggle-mark(1)\en\e
   12:Toggle marks for even pages   (Key\e\e: 2m):\e
        Toggle even:toggle-mark(2)\en\e
   13:Toggle mark for current page   (Key\e\e: 2m):\e
        Toggle current:toggle-mark()\en\e
   14:Unmark all pages   (Key\e\e: 0m):\e
        Unmark all:toggle-mark(0)\en\e
   SPACER(10)\en\e
   18:Display fonts darker   (Key\e\e: Alt-Ctrl-+):\e
        Fonts darker:change-density(5)\en\e
   19:Display fonts lighter   (Key\e\e: Alt-Ctrl--):\e
        Fonts lighter:change-density(-5)\en
.sp 1n
.ft
.fi
.RE
.PP
When the mouse remains over a toolbar button for a certain period, a `tooltip'
window is shown, describing what the button does using the
.I short tooltip string
from the above resource. At the same time, the
.I long tooltip string
is displayed in the statusline.
The appearance and behaviour of these tooltips can be customized via
the following resources:
.TP
.B tipShell.background
Background color of the tooltip window.
.TP
.B tipShell.fontSet
Font used for the tooltip.
.TP
.B tipShell.waitPeriod
The time (in milliseconds) the mouse pointer needs to be over
the button before the tooltip is shown. Set it to a negative value
to suppress the tooltips altogether.

.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH GREYSCALING AND COLORMAPS
The greyscale anti-aliasing feature in
.B xdvi
will not work at its best if the display does not have enough colors available.
This can happen if other applications are using most of the colormap
(even if they are iconified).  If this occurs, then
.B xdvi
will print an error message and turn on the
.B -copy
option.  This will result in overstrike characters appearing wrong;
it may also result in poor display quality if the number of available
colors is very small.
.PP
Typically this problem occurs on displays that allocate eight bits
of video memory per pixel.  To see how many bits per pixel your display
uses, type
.B xwininfo
in an
.B xterm
window, and then click the mouse on the root window when asked.  The
``Depth:'' entry will tell you how many bits are allocated per pixel.
.PP
Displays using at least 15 bits per pixel are typically
.B TrueColor
visuals, which do not have this problem, since their colormap is
permanently allocated and available to all applications.  (The visual
class is also displayed by
.BR xwininfo .)
For more information on visual classes see the documentation for the
X Window System.
.PP
To alleviate this problem, therefore, one may (a) run with more bits
per pixel (this may require adding more video memory or replacing the video
card), (b) shut down other applications that may be using much of the colormap
and then restart
.BR xdvi ,
or (c) run
.B xdvi
with the
.B \-install
option.
.PP
One application which is often the cause of this problem is
.BR Netscape .
In this case there are two more alternatives to remedying the situation.
One can run
.RB `` "netscape -install" ''
to cause
.B Netscape
to install a private colormap.  This can cause colors to change in
bizarre ways when the mouse is moved to a different window.
Or, one can run
.RB `` "netscape -ncols 220" ''
to limit
.B Netscape
to a smaller number of colors.  A smaller number will ensure that
other applications have more colors available, but will degrade the
color quality in the
.B Netscape
window.

.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH HANDLING OF POSTSCRIPT FIGURES
.B Xdvi
can display Encapsulated PostScript (EPS) files included in the
.I dvi
file.  Such files are first searched for in the directory where the
.I dvi
file is, and then using normal
.B Kpathsea
rules.  There is an exception to this, however:  if the file name begins
with a backtick
.RB ( ` ),
then the remaining characters in the file name give a shell command (often
.BR zcat )
which is executed; its standard output is then sent to be interpreted as
PostScript.
Since the execution of arbitrary shell commands with the user's
permissions is a huge security risk, evaluation of these backtick
commands is disabled by default. It needs to be activated via the
.B \-allowshell
command-line option.
.B NOTE:
You should never use this option when viewing documents that you
didn't compile yourself. The backtick specials are not needed for
uncompressing gzipped PostScript files, since
.B xdvi
can do that on the fly if the filename ends with
.I .eps.gz
or
.I .eps.Z
(and if the first bytes of the file indicate that the file is indeed
compressed).  This is both safer and more flexible than the backtick
approach, since the default file searching rules will apply to such
filenames too.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH TYPE 1 FONTS
Using FreeType (version 2),
.B xdvi
can render PostScript<tm> Type 1 fonts directly, without the
route via \*(Te\& pixel (pk)
fonts. The advantage of this is that only one size of each font needs
to be stored on disk.
Unless the
.B -notype1fonts
option is used,
.B xdvi
will try to render every font using FreeType. Only as a fallback will it
invoke an external program (like
.BR mktexpk ,
which in turn may invoke utilities like
.B ps2pk
or
.BR gsftopk )
to generate a pixel font from the Type 1 source. The direct rendering
of the
.B Computer Modern
fonts should work out-of-the box, whereas other Type 1 fonts such as
the 35 `standard' PostScript<tm> fonts resident in printers may need
to be made accessible for use with
.BR xdvi ,
unless your system
administrator or TeX distribution has already done so (which is the case
e.g. for current TeX Live systems). For the 35 PostScript<tm> resident
fonts,
.B xdvik
will search using the
.B Fontmap
provided with
.BR Ghostscript ,
if necessary.  Also, the
.B xdvik
distribution comes with a utility called
.B t1mapper
to make these fonts available for xdvi;
see the manual page for t1mapper(1) for usage details.  This program is
likely to be dropped in the future, however, since it is probably not
needed anymore.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SPECIALS (GENERALLY)
Any of the specials used by
.B xdvi
may be preceded by the characters
.RB `` xdvi: ''.
Doing so does not change the behavior of the special under
.BR xdvi ,
but it tells other dvi drivers (such as e.g. dvips) to ignore the special.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SOURCE SPECIALS
Some \*(Te\& implementations or macro packages provide the facility to
automatically include so-called `source specials' into a DVI file.
These contain the line number, eventually a column number, and the
filename of the .tex source. This makes it possible to jump from a .dvi
file to the corresponding place in the .tex source and vice versa (also
called `inverse search' - jumping from the DVI file to the TeX file is
also known as `reverse search', and jumping from the TeX file to the
DVI file as `forward search').
.P
To be usable with
.BR xdvi ,
source specials in the
.I dvi
file must have one of the following formats:
.RS 5
.nf
.sp 1n
    \fBsrc:\fP\fIline\fP[ ]\fIfilename\fP
    \fBsrc:\fP\fIline\fP\fB:\fP\fIcol\fP[ ]\fIfilename\fP
    \fBsrc:\fP\fIline\fP
    \fBsrc:\fP\fIline\fP\fB:\fP\fIcol\fP
    \fBsrc::\fP\fIcol\fP
.sp 1n
.fi
.RE
If
.I filename
or
.I line
are omitted, the most recent values are used.  The first source special on
each page must be in one of the first two forms, since defaults are not
inherited across pages.
.sp
You will need a \*(Te\& implementation that provides an appropriate
switch (e.g.
.IR -src )
or a macro package
(such as
.I srcltx.sty
or
.IR srctex.sty ,
available from CTAN:macros/latex/contrib/supported/srcltx/)
to insert such source specials into the DVI file.
.sp
For reverse search, the combination
.I Ctrl-Mouse 1
will make xdvi open an editor (the value of the
.I \-editor
command line option) with the file and the line number of the .tex
source. See the description of the
.I \-editor
option for more information
and example settings.
.P
For forward search,
.B xdvi
has a
.I \-sourceposition
option that makes
.B xdvi
jump to the page in
the DVI file corresponding to the given line (or the closest
line having a source special) of the specified file and highlight
the found region. See the description of the
.I \-sourceposition
option for more details.
.PP
More information on setting up various editors for use with source
specials can be found at:
.RS 5
.nf
.sp 1n
http://xdvi.sourceforge.net/inverse-search.html
.sp 1n
.fi
.RE
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH PAPERSIZE SPECIALS
.B xdvi
accepts specials to set the paper size for the document.  These specials
should be of the form
.RS 5
.nf
.sp 1n
    \fBpapersize=\fP[\fB*\fP]\fIwidth\fP,\fIheight\fP
.sp 1n
.fi
.RE
.PP
where
.I width
and
.I height
give the width and height of the paper, respectively.  Each of these should
appear in the form of a decimal number followed by any of the two-letter
abbreviations for units accepted by \*(Te\&
.RB ( pt ,
.BR pc ,
.BR in ,
.BR bp ,
.BR cm ,
.BR mm ,
.BR dd ,
.BR cc ,
or
.BR sp ).
If an asterisk
.RB ( * )
appears just before the width, then the measurements refer to the document
dimensions (e.g.,
.B pt
as opposed to
.BR truept ).
This allows a macro package to vary the page size according to elements
of the document; e.g.,
.RS 5
.ft 3
.nf
.sp 1n
\especial{xdvi: papersize=*\enumber\ewd\emybox sp,
         \enumber\eht\emybox sp}
.sp 1n
.ft
.fi
.RE
.PP
Except for the asterisk, this format is compatible with
.BR dvips .
.P
The last
.B papersize
special on a page determines the size of that page.  If there is no such
special on a given page, the most recent
.B papersize
is used, or, if there are no
.B papersize
specials on any preceding page, then the value of the
.B paper
resource (or
.B \-paper
option on the command line) is used.  Thus the paper size may vary for
different pages of the
.I dvi
file.
.P
If the
.B paper
resource (or
.B \-paper
command-line option) begins with a plus sign
.RB (` + '),
then all
.B papersize
specials in the
.I dvi
file are ignored.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH COLOR SPECIALS
The color specials supported by
.B xdvi
are the same as those supported by
.BR dvips ,
except that the literal PostScript color specification (as in the
.B AggiePattern
example in the
.B dvips
documentation) is not supported.
There are also some restrictions due to the way xdvi's  drawing  routines
are implemented; e.g. the
.B \ecolorbox
and
.B \efcolorbox
macros don't work with
.BR xdvi .
See the section LIMITATIONS below for more information on these restrictions.
.B Xdvi
supports the same list of named colors as
.B dvips
does, namely:
.P
.BR Apricot ,
.BR Aquamarine ,
.BR Bittersweet ,
.BR Black ,
.BR Blue ,
.BR BlueGreen ,
.BR BlueViolet ,
.BR BrickRed ,
.BR Brown ,
.BR BurntOrange ,
.BR CadetBlue ,
.BR CarnationPink ,
.BR Cerulean ,
.BR CornflowerBlue ,
.BR Cyan ,
.BR Dandelion ,
.BR DarkOrchid ,
.BR Emerald ,
.BR ForestGreen ,
.BR Fuchsia ,
.BR Goldenrod ,
.BR Gray ,
.BR Green ,
.BR GreenYellow ,
.BR JungleGreen ,
.BR Lavender ,
.BR LimeGreen ,
.BR Magenta ,
.BR Mahogany ,
.BR Maroon ,
.BR Melon ,
.BR MidnightBlue ,
.BR Mulberry ,
.BR NavyBlue ,
.BR OliveGreen ,
.BR Orange ,
.BR OrangeRed ,
.BR Orchid ,
.BR Peach ,
.BR Periwinkle ,
.BR PineGreen ,
.BR Plum ,
.BR ProcessBlue ,
.BR Purple ,
.BR RawSienna ,
.BR Red ,
.BR RedOrange ,
.BR RedViolet ,
.BR Rhodamine ,
.BR RoyalBlue ,
.BR RoyalPurple ,
.BR RubineRed ,
.BR Salmon ,
.BR SeaGreen ,
.BR Sepia ,
.BR SkyBlue ,
.BR SpringGreen ,
.BR Tan ,
.BR TealBlue ,
.BR Thistle ,
.BR Turquoise ,
.BR Violet ,
.BR VioletRed ,
.BR White ,
.BR WildStrawberry ,
.BR Yellow ,
.BR YellowGreen ,
.BR YellowOrange .
.P
Note that these names are case sensitive.
.P
The documentation of the La\*(Te\&
.B color
package provides more details on how to use such specials with
La\*(Te\&; see the
.B dvips
documentation for a detailed description of the
syntax and semantics of the color specials.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH SIGNALS
When
.B xdvi
receives a
.SB SIGUSR1
signal, it rereads the
.I dvi
file.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.B Xdvik
uses the same environment variables and algorithms for searching for
font files as \*(Te\& and friends.  See the documentation for the
.B Kpathsea
library,
.BR kpathsea.dvi ,
for a detailed description of these.
.PP
In addition,
.B xdvik
accepts the following variables:
.TP
.SB DISPLAY
Specifies which graphics display terminal to use.
.TP
.SB KPATHSEA_DEBUG
Trace
.B Kpathsea
lookups; set it to
.B -1
(= all bits on) for complete tracing.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.SB EXTENSIONMAPS
A list of files to be searched for mime types entries (as for Acrobat Reader).
Earlier entries in one of these files override later ones.
If this variable is not set, the following default path is used:
.RS 7
.nf
.ft 3
.sp 1n
$HOME/.mime.types:/etc/mime.types:\e
    /usr/etc/mime.types:/usr/local/etc/mime.types
.sp 1n
.ft
.fi
.RE

.TP
.SB MAILCAPS
A list of files to be searched for mailcap entries, as defined by RFC
1343. See this RFC or the
.BR mailcap (4)
manual page for a detailed description of the mailcap file format.
Currently, only the following mailcap features are supported:
.RS 7
.TP 7
.BI test= command
The entry is only used if
.I command
can be executed via the
.B system()
call and if the system() call returns with value 0 (success).
The
.I command
string may contain the format string
.IR %s ,
which will be replaced by the file name.
.TP
.BI needsterminal
If this flag is used, the command will be executed in a new xterm
window by prepending
.RI `` "xterm -e "''
to the command string.
.RE
.PP
.RS 7
All other fields in the mailcap entry are ignored by xdvi.
Earlier entries in one of these files override later ones.
If the variable is not defined, the following default path is used:
.RS 4
.nf
.ft 3
.sp 1n
$HOME/.mailcap:/etc/mailcap:/usr/etc/mailcap:\e
    /usr/local/etc/mailcap
.sp 1n
.ft
.fi
.RE
.br
For security reasons, some special characters (i.e.: ( ) ` \e ;)
are escaped in the argument before passing it to
.BR system() .
.RE
.TP
.SB BROWSER
Determines the web browser used to open external links (i.e., all URLs that don't
start with the
.RI ` file: '
scheme and are not relative links in the local DVI file), and to open links
for which no viewer has been specified in the
.B mailcap
files. The value of this variable is a colon-separated list of commands. Xdvi
will try each of them in sequence until one succeeds (i.e. doesn't immediately
return with status 0). This allows you to
specify your favourite browser at the beginning,
and fallback browsers at the end. Every occurrence of
.I %s
in the string is replaced by the target URL; every occurrence of
.I %%
is replaced by a single
.IR % .
If no
.I %s
is present, the URL string is added as an extra argument.
.br
An example setting is:
.RS 7
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP 7
.SB "netscape -raise -remote 'openURL(%s,new-window)':xterm -e lynx %s:xterm -e wget %s:lynx %s:wget %s"
.TP
See
.TP
.SB http://www.catb.org/~esr/BROWSER/
.PP
for more details on the
.B BROWSER
environment variable.
.RE
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.SB GS_LIB
A colon-separated list of directories to search for
.B Fontmap
files, etc., as used for Ghostscript.  It has the same meaning as it does
when running Ghostscript.  In
.BR xdvik ,
it is used when searching for font files when the map file does not give a
file name for the font (this should be quite rare).  The command
.B gs \-h
will list the default value that Ghostscript uses.  See also the
.SB XDVI_GS_LIB
environment variable (below).
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.SB XDVI_GS_LIB
This has the same effect as
.SB GS_LIB
but affects only
.BR xdvi .
Use this when you want to use a different value for
.SB GS_LIB
when running
.BR xdvi ,
but use either the compiled-in default value or some other value when running
Ghostscript.  If both
.SB GS_LIB
and
.SB XDVI_GS_LIB
are set, then
.B xdvi
uses
.SB XDVI_GS_LIB.
To use the default value compiled in to
.B xdvi
while still retaining the ability to set
.SB GS_LIB
for use with Ghostscript, you can set
.SB XDVI_GS_LIB
to the empty string.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.SB TMPDIR
The directory to use for storing temporary files created when uncompressing
PostScript files.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.SB XEDITOR
Determines the editor command used for source special `reverse
search', if neither the
.I \-editor
command-line option
nor the
.I .editor
resource are  specified.   See  the description of the
.I \-editor
command line option for details on the format.
.TP
.SB VISUAL
Determines an editor to be opened in an xterm
window if neither of
.IR -editor ,
.IR .editor ,
or
.I XEDITOR
is specified.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.SB EDITOR
Determines an editor to be opened in an xterm
window if neither of
.IR -editor ,
.IR .editor ,
.I XEDITOR
or
.I VISUAL
is specified.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.TP
.SB WWWBROWSER
Obsolete; use
.B BROWSER
instead.
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.SH LIMITATIONS
.B xdvi
accepts many but not all types of PostScript specials accepted by
.BR dvips .
For example, it accepts most specials generated by
.B epsf
and
.BR psfig .
It does not, however, support
.B bop\-hook
or
.BR eop\-hook ,
nor does it allow PostScript commands to affect the rendering of things that
are not PostScript (for example, the ``NEAT'' and rotated ``A'' examples in the
.B dvips
manual).  These restrictions are due to the design of
.BR xdvi ;
in all likelihood they will always remain.
.PP
La\*(Te\&2e rotation specials are currently not supported.
.PP
.B MetaPost
files containing included text are not supported.
.PP
.BR Xdvi 's
color handling doesn't support the
.B \ecolorbox
and
.B \efcolorbox
macros;  this is not likely to change in the near future. This also
means that  e.g. colored tables (as created by the
.I colortbl
package) may render incorrectly: Text in colors different from the
default foreground color may not be displayed. When the page is
redrawn (e.g. after using the magnifier), the background color of the
cells may overdraw the text.
.SH FILES
.TP
.SB $HOME/.xdvirc
A file that holds all settings that the user changed via the keys, the `Options'
and the Xaw `Modes' menu and the dialogs, as X resources. These resources override the
settings in
.BR $HOME/.Xdefaults .
This file is ignored if the
.B  \-q
option is used or the
.B noInitFile
X resource is set.
.TP
.SB config.xdvi
An optional configuration file for the Type 1 font setup, which specifies
.BR dvips \-style
map files specific to
.BR xdvik .
If used, it should be present in the directory determined by the
.B TEXCONFIG
environment variable.  Its format is similar to configuration files for
.BR dvips ,
except that it is only scanned for the names of map files
.RB ( p
and
.B p+
directives).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR dvips (1),
.BR mktexpk (1),
.BR ps2pk (1),
.BR gsftopk (1),
.BR t1mapper (1),
.BR mailcap (4),
the
.B Kpathsea
documentation,
and the Xdvik home page at
.BR http://xdvi.sourceforge.net/ .
.SH AUTHORS
Eric Cooper, CMU, did a version for direct output to a QVSS. Modified
for X by Bob Scheifler, MIT Laboratory for Computer Science. Modified
for X11 by Mark Eichin, MIT SIPB. Additional enhancements by many
others.
.PP
The current maintainer of the original
.B xdvi
is Paul Vojta, U.C. Berkeley.
.PP
Code for the xdvik variant has been contributed
by many people, whose names are scattered across the
source files. Xdvik is hosted on
.B CTAN:dviware/xdvik
and on SourceForge; for the most up-to-date information, please
visit:
.PP
.B http://xdvi.sourceforge.net
.PP
Please report all bugs to the SourceForge bug tracker:
.PP
.nf
.B http://sourceforge.net/tracker/?func=add&group_id=23164&atid=377580
.PP

